<article id="2997921" title=Talk:Royal Rumble>
	<talkpage id="21290909" title="Talk:Royal Rumble/Archive 1">
{{talkarchive}}

==Discussion==

The point made about the Rumble and Wrestlemania being the only 2 events, other than non televised, to have matches featuring Raw and Smackdown wrestlers is not true.  Summerslam has featured several inter-brand matches as well as Taboo Tuesday.

:I've editted the line you mention, however those Pay Per Views have not featured inter-promotional competition on a regular basis. Therefore, I simply qualified the statement originally put in.
:--[[User:Darryl Hamlin|Darryl Hamlin]] 11:48, 13 December 2005 (UTC)

== Merging the 2004 and the 2005 to te Royal Rumble Page ==

I think what's best is the 2004 and the 2005 Royal Rumble Pages should be merged to the current Royal Rumble Main page so that the page can maitain its quality ''--Unsigned comment left by [[User:203.167.66.132|203.167.66.132]] 11:55, 9 January 2006 (UTC)''
:I disagree, in fact I was thinking more of the opposite and seperating all the Royal Rumble events into seperate articles so that we could include such things as elimination details which would clutter up the article if it was all in one article. --[[User:Oakster|Oakster]] 23:12, 9 January 2006 (UTC)

== Facts and trivia ==

Ye gods. It has ~50 bits. Anyone want to shorten this? Some of this stuff is kind of pointless.--[[User:Toffile|Toffile]] 04:10, 30 January 2006 (UTC)

== Merge ==

Merging the original rumble article with 2003-2007 articles was a good idea but you should put the boxes with the entrances and the eliminations. The way these rumbles are described now isn't a step forward camparing them with the separated articles. That's my opinion... [[User:SOAD KoRn|SOAD KoRn]] 09:39, 22 June 2006 (UTC)

== Moving of Pages ==

Shouldn't every Rumble be moved into it's own seperate page, a la the Wrestlemania and SummerSlam pages? [[User:AWBricker|AWBricker]]

== My edits ==

I trimmed out a lot of the storylines descriptions, as they were quite long and involved and most likely documented elsewhere.  If someone really misses them, perhaps put them near the actual Rumble later in the entry or make a new one for the specific pay-per-view.  Also added some sections, cause it was just feeling like a really long intro.  The names/order is totally up for debate, but I figured it needed something. --[[User:Davetron5000|Davetron5000]] 18:38, 3 July 2006 (UTC)

== Format ==

Can we revert to the format that it used to be? It looks really sloppy right now and the infoboxes arent next to their respective events.

Yes, I think we should do the same thing others are doing with the Summerslam articles--[[User:Andresg770|Andresg770]] 22:28, 3 July 2006 (UTC)

== 2007 Rumble ==

---To the question of whether the rumble winner gets a shot the ECW Title, if you look at this: [http://www.wwe.com/shows/royalrumble/exclusives/39182221/] it merely says that the winner gets a &quot;world championship&quot; shot at Wrestlemanina.

Since WWE has shown that they consider the ECW Title on par with the WWE and World Heavyweight Titles (as evidenced by Cyber Sunday), that would appear to mean that any of the 3 titles can be chosen. &lt;small&gt;—The preceding [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|unsigned]] comment was added by [[Special:Contributions/75.36.8.49|75.36.8.49]] ([[User talk:75.36.8.49|talk]]) 16:34, 16 January 2007 (UTC).&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- HagermanBot Auto-Unsigned --&gt;

there is an articalee on wwe.com thats says you can challng for the ecw title

== Facts ==

Ok, I'm pretty sure that the 1998 Rumble had weapon use in the beginning, so 2001 isn't the only one.

Also, Owen Hart is not the only guy to compete in 7 straight. Rick Martel was in there from 1989-1995. I'm gonna edit the article to fix these points. --[[User:Scaryice|Scaryice]] 07:08, 16 January 2006 (UTC)

You're right 1998 did have a weapon in the begining as Cactus Jack and Chainsaw Charlie exchanged either chairshots or trashcan-lid shots at the start of the match before and after #3 entrant Tom Brandy enetered the ring.
The 2007 Rumble had chairs,canes,and tables involved.[[User:Lopeyter|Lopeyter]] 00:42, 11 June 2007 (UTC)

== Royal Rumble Box/Template ==

The last line of Royal Rumble box at the bottom of the page isn't properly aligned. I'd fix it myself if I knew how :/ -- [[User:The_Hiddey|'''{{#if: |&lt;span style=&quot;background-color:black;color:black;&quot;&gt;_&lt;/span&gt;|&lt;span style=&quot;color:black;&quot;&gt;black&lt;/span&gt;}}{{#if:The Hiddey|&lt;span style=&quot;background-color:black;color:#FFCC00;&quot;&gt;The Hiddey&lt;/span&gt;|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#FFCC00;&quot;&gt;black&lt;/span&gt;}}{{#if: |&lt;span style=&quot;background-color:black;color:black;&quot;&gt;_&lt;/span&gt;|&lt;span style=&quot;color:black;&quot;&gt;black&lt;/span&gt;}}''']] 21:19, 9 July 2007 (UTC)
: I tried but couldn't do it.  The Royal Rumble template looks fine by itself but gets misaligned when inserted in the PPV one.  [[User:Drwarpmind|DrWarpMind]] 17:02, 13 July 2007 (UTC)

::So what is Plan B? -- [[User:The_Hiddey|'''{{#if: |&lt;span style=&quot;background-color:black;color:black;&quot;&gt;_&lt;/span&gt;|&lt;span style=&quot;color:black;&quot;&gt;black&lt;/span&gt;}}{{#if:The Hiddey|&lt;span style=&quot;background-color:black;color:#FFCC00;&quot;&gt;The Hiddey&lt;/span&gt;|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#FFCC00;&quot;&gt;black&lt;/span&gt;}}{{#if: |&lt;span style=&quot;background-color:black;color:black;&quot;&gt;_&lt;/span&gt;|&lt;span style=&quot;color:black;&quot;&gt;black&lt;/span&gt;}}''']] 18:03, 13 July 2007 (UTC)
:::Ok, it's fixed now.  I somehow missed a &quot;text-align: left&quot; when I looked at it before. [[User:Drwarpmind|DrWarpMind]] 01:21, 14 July 2007 (UTC)

::::Thanks and good job -- [[User:The_Hiddey|'''{{#if: |&lt;span style=&quot;background-color:black;color:black;&quot;&gt;_&lt;/span&gt;|&lt;span style=&quot;color:black;&quot;&gt;black&lt;/span&gt;}}{{#if:The Hiddey|&lt;span style=&quot;background-color:black;color:#FFCC00;&quot;&gt;The Hiddey&lt;/span&gt;|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#FFCC00;&quot;&gt;black&lt;/span&gt;}}{{#if: |&lt;span style=&quot;background-color:black;color:black;&quot;&gt;_&lt;/span&gt;|&lt;span style=&quot;color:black;&quot;&gt;black&lt;/span&gt;}}''']] 10:21, 14 July 2007 (UTC)

== Shortest Lasting In The Rumble ==

I believe Mo (from Men on a Mission) has the &quot;honor&quot; of being in the Rumble the shortest. He was in and out within seconds in 1995 (ran into the ring, ran at King Kong Bundy and was flipped right out). I just don't have the exact time on me now so I post this in the hopes someone can change it... --[[User:SLWalsh|SLWalsh]] 16:29, 7 September 2006 (UTC)


Mo did come close to breaking the record, as he was in the 1995 match for about 4 to 5 seconds. However, remember that it takes time for him to run across the ring, and notice the &quot;hang time&quot; that he had after being backdropped by Bundy (he's a big guy and all, but he was still mid-air for about 2 seconds!)

However, after viewing all of the Royal Rumble bouts, I am certain tha the Warlord set the record for &quot;shortest lasting&quot; in 1989. He stepped into the ring and was immediately clotheslined out by Hulk Hogan. The time he was in the ring to the time he hit the floor (after being knocked over the top) was about 2 seconds. That is the record, regardless of the WWE's steadyfast instance that Bushwacker Luke set the record in the 1991 bout (he lasted approximately 5 seconds in that match, again, not the record). [[User:70.73.26.231|70.73.26.231]] 02:02, 5 October 2006 (UTC)

:Yeah, I'm actually watching the '95 Rumble right now, and that's why I came here, because I didn't recall hearing Mo's name associated with the fastest elimination.  I can't be sure about the Warlord, but Mo was in the match for roughly three seconds.  The thing to remember is that you're eliminated ONLY when you hit the floor, not just when you go out of the ring.  Mo was in the air for about a second and a half before he hit the floor, so, technically, he was still in the match until then. [[User:VelvetKevorkian|VelvetKevorkian]] 10:13, 11 December 2006 (UTC)

Ok, I've watch the Royal Rumbles in question and these are the time that I came up with. I started the count once the wrestler entered the ring until their feet hit the floor

Warlord - 3 seconds (step into the ring to be clotheslined out by Hogan)
Bushwacker Luke - 4 seconds (walked across the ring by Earthquake and thrown over the top)
Mo - 4 seconds (Ran at Bundy and was backdropped)

However, I may have found another person in the 1995 Rumble who may have tied Warlord and that was Owen Hart. When Owen was heading towards the ring he was attacked by Bret Hart, Owen was outside the ring for a bit and when he entered he ran at Bulldog and was backdropped to the outside. This was shown in slo-mo instant replay to be about 7 seconds. I'm guessing the film would be moving at about half speed, so that would put Owen in the ring for about 3-3.5 seconds, either tieing him with the Warlord or giving him second place. [[User:PG 13|PG 13]] 19:33, 3 April 2007 (UTC)

I agree with Owen possibly matching Warlord's record. You can actually see his ring entrance and subsequent elimination on the video wall when Timothy Well enters at #12 (the video wall is also how you can tell that Kwang was eliminated by Seone -- with a big boot). The huge pop that can be heard is obviously not for a jobber like Well...it was for when Owen was eliminated! [[User:68.146.250.99|68.146.250.99]] 00:05, 14 September 2007 (UTC)

==2 Seconds==
the warlord lasted two seconds not three,proof is here[[http://www.wwe.com/shows/royalrumble/facts/]]


Thanks anonymous guy :P '''[[Special:Contributions/The Hybrid|&lt;font color=&quot;Steel blue&quot;&gt;The&lt;/font&gt;]] [[User:The Hybrid|&lt;font color=&quot;Maroon&quot;&gt;Hyb&lt;/font&gt;]][[User talk:The Hybrid|&lt;font color=&quot;Green&quot;&gt;rid&lt;/font&gt;]]''' 00:20, 14 September 2007 (UTC)

== Booking the Rumble ==

I've heard from various sources that [[Pat Patterson]] is in charge of booking the Rumble main event (the WWE seems to claim this when they had that Patterson sendoff at Taboo Tuesday).  Is this true? [[User:KelvSYC|kelvSYC]] 15:43, 24 December 2005 (UTC)
:Pat Paterson is the one that came up with the concept of the Royal Rumble, and yeah he usually has a hand in booking it [[User:Lynx Raven Raide|Lynx Raven Raide]] 12:33, 22 September 2007 (UTC)

== Longest Lasting In The Rumble ==

If I am not mistaking,In 2001 Kane lasted around 63 minutes in the rumble,why is he not listed as the longest lasting?
[[User:204.212.120.129|204.212.120.129]] 22:48, 21 February 2006 (UTC)

-Because you are, indeed, mistaken. [[User:Adamaniac|Adamaniac]] 14:00, 30 March, 2006 (UTC)

Watch the programs, check WWE.com, I am getting P****d off with telling people to look up the information themselves. [[User:K-man-1|K-man-1]] 09:58, 24 July 2006 (UTC)

How long did Bob Backland survive for in 1993? I'm sure it was longer than Rey's record.. [[User:194.66.191.23|194.66.191.23]] 02:24, 26 October 2006 (UTC)

Checking WWE.com is virtually useless in terms of gathering accurate information,even about thier own product. Anyone who has watched their shows anytime since the mid-eighties should be keenly aware that WWE are big practicers of revisionist history,and their Rumble info is no exception. Chris Benoit holds the legit record for time spent in the ring for a single Rumble match being in there for 1:10 in 2004 (watch it and time it yourself from the moment he steps into the right up until the moment he eliminates Big show) The record he broke was indeed held by Bob Backlund in the 93 Rumble. 
Another note,in the 2001 version of the Royal Rumble Jim Ross is quoted as saying that it marked only &quot;the second time&quot; The Honky Tonk man had been in a Rumble match. This is more false information as he has been in a total of 4 (89,90,98,01) Inexplicibly,the WWE I guess has erased the 1989 Royal Rumble from its memory bank in terms of who actually participated in the match as in 1991,Gorilla Monsoon makes the claim that Rick Martel was making his Royal Rumble debut,so I guess not only did the 89 Rumble not occur,neither did the 1990 verion,which featured the first ever Hogan/Warrior confrontation.
:According to OnlineWorldofWrestling.com (formerly ObsessedWithWrestling.com), Chris Benoit spent 1:01:35 in the ring in 2004 [http://www.onlineworldofwrestling.com/results/wweppv/royalrumble04.html] [[User:Lynx Raven Raide|Lynx Raven Raide]] 13:07, 22 September 2007 (UTC)

== Viscera was the most to be eliminated? ==

I think there's actually a tie for the most superstars required to perform a single elimination.  This tie is between Viscera and Muhammed Hassan.  I remember in 2005, Hassan did some kind of Islamic thing that pissed everyone off, so the other eight wrestlers in the ring ganged up on him and threw him over the top.  Should that be put in the article?  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/130.184.211.114|130.184.211.114]] ([[User talk:130.184.211.114|talk]]) 21:45, 14 October 2007 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Footnotes ==
In the 1991 Royal Rumble Macho Man, #18, never came out. And in 1994 Bastion Booger was to come out in the mid-twenties or so and never did. In these two Rumbles, there were only 29 participants. And again in 2005. Why isn't this mentioned in the footnotes?

Did Macho decide not to come out? I've always wondered about that.

== Stats ==
Perhaps the stats such as most eliminations and the participant in the longest should be separated into the ones with 2min intervals and the ones with 1.5 min intervals, with exceptions being the 20-man Rumble and 1 min interval Rumble.

And maybe someone could put stats up for each Rumble on it's own page? So, for each Rumble, one can see who was in the longest, who had the most eliminations, etc., for that particular Rumble.

== Elimination ==

The part were it says a worker can be eliminated by someone already eliminated is wrong. In the 1996 RR Vader is eliminated then comes back in and throws out Michaels, Owen Hart, Bob Holly and HHH but they are not counted as eliminations, so I reckon that line should be changed.&lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:MightyMightyFoe|MightyMightyFoe]] ([[User talk:MightyMightyFoe|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/MightyMightyFoe|contribs]]) &lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt;
:I'm actually not to sure on that. I'm going to recheck, but I swear there was an elimination like that in the '92 Rumble. I'll go check though.--[[User:Toffile|Toffile]] 18:15, 27 January 2006 (UTC)

- Yea I just remembered 'Taker eliminating Maven in one Rumble as well. So i guess it only counted for that one Rumble. [[User:MightyMightyFoe|MightyMightyFoe]]
::Yeah, I just checked. That happened in the 2002 Royal Rumble. I think that Roberts eliminated Savage in 1992 (after Savage took out Roberts), but Savage was allowed back in. I think it's one of those things that's left up to the writers.--[[User:Toffile|Toffile]] 18:21, 27 January 2006 (UTC)
:::No, Savage jumped over the top rope himself, and Monsoon and Heenan had to sell it as &quot;you can't eliminate yourself,&quot; which of course would not be true in later editions (like Mil Mascaras in 1997). --[[User:Scaryice|Scaryice]] 11:33, 28 January 2006 (UTC)

* I think how they ar eliminated is left up to the writers (and if i remember correctly,maven was thrown trough the ropes?) and scotty never made his way to the ring (hassan interfered)
Scotty is going to mania! (that was random)[[User:Lord revan|Lord revan]] 18:00, 15 February 2006 (UTC)

1. people can eliminate themselves.
2. when someone has been eliminated and they come back and eliminate other people, such as Vader, it does constitute as an elimination, but it does not count as theirs, it counts as a self elimination.
3. Maven's case counted as an elimination as he was declared unable to compete any longer (I mean he got his head smashed thrfough a popcorn machine).
[[User:K-man-1|K-man-1]] 09:40, 24 July 2006 (UTC)

::No, Vader's eliminations didn't count as eliminations as all the people in the rumble (including Michaels, I believe) are allowed back into the ring to continue the match. But I agree with others, I guess it's just up to the writers discretion[[User:MightyMightyFoe|MightMightyFoe]] 22:43, 28 January 2007 (GMT)

Here is one that is forgotten. In the 1990 Royal Rumble,Bad News Brown was eliminated by Roddy Piper. In retaliation,Brown then climbs onto the apron and pulls Piper over the ropes by his hair,and they brawl down the aisle and to the back. Bad News is credited with eliminating Piper.

::The thing to remember is that there's only ONE rule in the Rumble; over the top rope and you're gone.  It doesn't make one bit of difference how. [[User:VelvetKevorkian|VelvetKevorkian]] 10:04, 11 December 2006 (UTC)

The rules began to change when the WWF entered its Attitude era, and yes in the 1992 Rumble Savage eliminated himself, but it didnt count and in 96 Vader did eliminate 4 or 5 people, but it didnt count but since then the rules have changed (such as Mil Mascaras in 1997 eliminating himself, Shane McMahon eliminating HBK in 2006 etc.) [[User:220.235.114.119|220.235.114.119]] 02:54, 8 November 2007 (UTC)

== Trivia --- People not technically eliminated ==

I'm not sure so I need help from others; this is about the people who, according to the article, were not ''technically'' eliminated butI think they really were:

1. Mabel (1999): It says he was taken out thourhg the ropes by the Ministry of Darkness, but I remember watching the video and seeing Mabel's shadow (since the lights were out) going over the top rope. I haven't seen the video in a while, so I might be wrong.

2. Maven (2002): I have this one on DVD, and I am positively sure that The Undertaker returned Maven to the ring (before taking him through the crowd to the backstage area) and clotheslined him over the top rope. Jim Ross said that &quot;he wasn't sure if that elimination counted,&quot; but never really dismissed it.

3. Chavo Guerrero (2006): I haven't seen this one yet, but it mentions that he went through the ropes (I guess to the outer part of the mat) and climbed over to the top rope, then he was pushed off by Triple H. I don't know, but I always thought that the top turnbuckles were considered part of the top rope. I guess I could put as an example Jeff Hardy (2003) when he ran from one corner of the ring to the opposite one and climbed over to the top turnbuckle. He was then pushed by Rob Van Dam and it was considered a legal elimination.

** If anyone knows about any of these and can corroborate or dismiss my observations, please do, so we can keep this article as accurate as possible.

--[[User:Andresg770|Andresg770]] 17:11, 30 May 2006 (UTC)

Ok, i have the mabel one on video, King clearly stated that the Acolytes and mideon had eliminated mabel and taken him to the Undertaker. The Maven one, i recorded on PPV, the Undertaker got back in the ring threw Maven THROUGH the ropes, took him backstage through the crowd, smashed his head through a popcorn machine (busting Maven open) and maven was declared unable to compete, constituting as an elimination. the chavo one im trying to find but cant so i cant help you yet but i will as soon as i find it. [[User:K-man-1|K-man-1]] 09:51, 24 July 2006 (UTC)

** Re: Chavo.........I don't think it matters how a turnbuckle elimination happens. Mil Mascaras did the same thing in '97 that Chavo did in '06; only Mils jumped out of the ring himself while HHH shoved Chavo. I guess &quot;getting atop the corner&quot; constitutes &quot;getting back into the ring.&quot; Hey someone's gotta make sense of this stuff, so why not us fans who should probably be writing wrestling shows?! ;p --[[User:SLWalsh|SLWalsh]] 16:25, 7 September 2006 (UTC)

***Regarding Mabel Incident*** I was actually at this Rumble, and had great seats.  I honestly think he went over, only for the fact that it happened quickly, and it would be tough for Mabel/Vis to bend through the ropes, and would have been faster for him to go over.  I honestly think it was an elimination.  but this is just my opinion and orig. research and not wiki proper.[[User:LessThanClippers|LessThanClippers]] 22:26, 6 November 2007 (UTC)

****I've got the Rumble boxset and I've watched and zoomed and rewatched and I agree at Mabel's size, trying to get him through the ropes would have taken ages. [[User:220.235.114.119|220.235.114.119]] 03:01, 8 November 2007 (UTC)

== 7th Straight win ==

I made a comment about this at the Wrestlemania 23 page but was told to try it here. I was wondering if it should be added that with his win at Mania, The Undertaker becomes the 7th Straight man to win the Royal Rumble match and go on to Mania and win the WWE/World Title? [[User:24.239.158.35|24.239.158.35]] 02:04, 3 April 2007 (UTC)

In my opinion I don't think it should be added because the wrestler who wins the Rumble Match is whomever the WWE is going to have step up to the main event level. So, basically the guy who wins the Rumble will ALWAYS go on to win a world title at Mania. The only time I remember it not happening is at Wrestlemania 16. [[User:Darkdemon90]] 13:38, 22 November 2007 (UTC)

:Actually, there have been 4 cases in which the winner of the Royal Rumble didn't win the WWE Championship at [[WrestleMania]]:  [[Shawn Michaels]] in [[Royal Rumble (1995)|1995]], [[Stone Cold Steve Austin]] in [[Royal Rumble (1997)|1997]], [[Vince McMahon]] in [[Royal Rumble (1999)|1999]], and [[The Rock]] in [[Royal Rumble (2000)|2000]].  In the cases of McMahon and Austin, though, they did not even have a WWE Title match at Mania.  These are all pretty notable, in my opinion, since the RR wins  of Austin, Rock, and McMahon were very controversial and important to their storylines; while 95 is the year where Michaels won after entering at #1.
:Still, I don't know if the bit of the &quot;7th straight win&quot; should be in the article, since all it takes is one person to win the Rumble but not the title for the entire bit to be taken off the article. --[[User:Andresg770|Andresg770]] ([[User talk:Andresg770|talk]]) 15:49, 22 November 2007 (UTC)

== 3bullet ==

3bullet, why did you make those changes? None of them makes sense?

a) Kane has never won a Royal Rumble, so that bit of 'statistic/trivia' is incorrect
b) You added about Kane eliminating 11 guys A SECOND TIME
c) Its not a Video Box Set, its a DVD Box Set. Just like the WrestleMania ones.
d) You replaced the part about them &quot;announcing it&quot;, when that happaned a year ago, and it has since been released.

I am wondering why you made these changes, when they are all pretty much wrong. [[User:Rypcord|Rypcord]] 12:45, 16 May 2007 (UTC)

3bullet, also why do you keep changing the section on rewards for winning the Royal Rumble.  If you are a old school fan, You should remember the events leading up to Feburary's Main Event, with the main angle being which of the 3 (Savage, Hogan and Warrior) would receive the WWE Title Match at WrestleMania VII

:That’s basically what it says in the article. You're just adding too redundant stuff. Also please do not re-add the logo. It is a [[WP:FU]] violation per admin Yamla. Thank you -- [[User:3bulletproof16|&lt;font color=&quot;blue&quot;&gt;'''bullet'''&lt;/font&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;green&quot;&gt;'''proof'''&lt;/font&gt;]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:3bulletproof16|&lt;font color=&quot;black&quot;&gt;'''3:16'''&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;/sup&gt; 02:50, 17 June 2007 (UTC)

Actually, it states that in 1991, the winner was officially given an opportunity to wrestle for the WWE Title.  That is untrue.  That stipulation wasn't added until the 1993 Royal Rumble. Hogan's title shot in 91 wasn't because he won the Rumble....that was a factor, but not the ultimate reason why.

On another note, the article says &quot;This championship match is often the last event on the WrestleMania card (although it has not been since 2006) according to principles in the WWE that states that &quot;the Royal Rumble winner gets a first-class ticket to WrestleMania&quot;

If I remember correctly, the last time the Rumble winner went on last at Wrestlemania was Batista in 2005 at Wrestlemania 21. Rey won last years Rumble, however John Cena vs. Triple H went on last, and this year, it was Undertaker, and John Cena vs. Shawn Michaels went on last. I wont edit it however, apparently I only vandalize wiki, as all my edits seem to get reverted and I get warnings for it, fuck knows why. Is there something you guys aren't tellin me? :) [[User:Taker04|Taker04]] ([[User talk:Taker04|talk]]) 08:46, 27 November 2007 (UTC)

== Entry Slots ==

Should some mention be made of particular entry spot rewards/punishments.  Although, almost always entry slots are completely at random, havn't a few been handed out, or, in my tiredness of working with nothing to do all day, am I mixing facts with another event.  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:LessThanClippers|LessThanClippers]] ([[User talk:LessThanClippers|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/LessThanClippers|contribs]]) 21:56, 6 November 2007 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;


Somehow I think even when the numbers are drawn (like they do every year) its booked in advance, not random as they would have us believe...[[User:Taker04|Taker04]] ([[User talk:Taker04|talk]]) 03:25, 17 December 2007 (UTC)
:Well obviously, but I meant in universe, high entry spots have been used as a reward.[[User:LessThanClippers|LessThanClippers]] ([[User talk:LessThanClippers|talk]]) 22:13, 17 December 2007 (UTC)

== Runners-Up ==

Does anyone have a problem with a runner-up column on the Royal Rumble table? I'd previously put it in but it was reverted due to being classed as 'unnecessary info'. I personally think it's an interesting addition to the table and doesn't harm it in anyway... If there are positive responses to this, I'll revert back to the column, but if not, I'll leave it as is.
[[User:Rick 50000|Rick 50000]] ([[User talk:Rick 50000|talk]]) 19:43, 18 December 2007 (UTC)

:I just think that it is opening the door for all sorts of trivia additions to the table. If we have runners-up, why not have first entrant, second entrant, first eliminated, most eliminations, most time in the ring, etc, etc. If somebody really wanted to know the runner-up, all they have to do is click on the corresponding article. [[User:Nikki311|&lt;font color=&quot;Teal&quot;&gt;'''Nikki'''&lt;/font&gt;]][[User Talk:Nikki311|&lt;font color=&quot;Salmon&quot;&gt;'''311'''&lt;/font&gt;]] 23:11, 18 December 2007 (UTC)

== Benoit ==

we should take him off as wwe has and we should 2 coz 2 them he NEVER won it.  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/124.150.2.81|124.150.2.81]] ([[User talk:124.150.2.81|talk]]) 02:15, 27 December 2007 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:problem is he actually did win. Just because WWE has taken him off doesn't mean we should. Wikipedia is an encyclopedia and reports the facts ,and if this means mentioning a guy who murdered his family, then so be it. [[User:NiciVampireHeart|NiciVampireHeart]] ([[User talk:NiciVampireHeart|talk]]) 00:53, 29 December 2007 (UTC)

i remeber something in the rules of wiki goes on sorces and that cing that on the wwe web page he never won so if they dont count it so should we.--[[Special:Contributions/124.181.34.76|124.181.34.76]] ([[User talk:124.181.34.76|talk]]) 04:53, 29 December 2007 (UTC)

WWE as a primary source doesn't count it, but the general references used at the bottom do. Third party references trump primary sources. [[User:Nikki311|&lt;font color=&quot;Teal&quot;&gt;'''Nikki'''&lt;/font&gt;]][[User Talk:Nikki311|&lt;font color=&quot;Salmon&quot;&gt;'''311'''&lt;/font&gt;]] 04:12, 30 December 2007 (UTC)

== First High Definition PPV ==

I think it deserves some mention that the 2008 Royal Rumble will be the first WWE pay per view or WWE production to be broadcast in high definition. [[User:Kennyb08|Kennyb08]] ([[User talk:Kennyb08|talk]]) 06:49, 31 December 2007 (UTC)

:Do you have a reliable source that states that? A WWE Corporate or WWE.com press release would be a really good source. If you can provide a link, I'd say it can be added. [[User:Nikki311|&lt;font color=&quot;Teal&quot;&gt;'''Nikki'''&lt;/font&gt;]][[User Talk:Nikki311|&lt;font color=&quot;Salmon&quot;&gt;'''311'''&lt;/font&gt;]] 07:34, 31 December 2007 (UTC)

Found a cite: http://www.engadgethd.com/2007/12/28/royal-rumble-to-be-wwes-first-hd-pay-per-view-event/ --[[User:Bedford|Bedford]] ([[User talk:Bedford|talk]]) 07:46, 31 December 2007 (UTC)

:Good enough. I've moved the info from the lead to under the PPV header as new info should not be located in the lead (per [[WP:LEAD]]). I also formatted the citation for you. [[User:Nikki311|&lt;font color=&quot;Teal&quot;&gt;'''Nikki'''&lt;/font&gt;]][[User Talk:Nikki311|&lt;font color=&quot;Salmon&quot;&gt;'''311'''&lt;/font&gt;]] 07:51, 31 December 2007 (UTC)
::I found a cite from DirecTV as well.  Not properly ref'ed, I guess, so you'll need to fix it (probably why I don't have any GA's yet :( .--[[User:Bedford|Bedford]] ([[User talk:Bedford|talk]]) 07:54, 31 December 2007 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
	<talkpage id="2997921" title="Talk:Royal Rumble">
{{talkheader}}
{{ArticleHistory
|action1=FLC
|action1date=20:15, 1 January 2008
|action1link=Wikipedia:Featured list candidates/Royal Rumble
|action1result=promoted
|action1oldid=181433470

|action2=FLR
|action2date=15:36, 18 August 2012
|action2link=Wikipedia:Featured list removal candidates/Royal Rumble/archive1
|action2result=removed
|action2oldid=507802523

|currentstatus=FFL
}}
{{pro-wrestling|class=list|importance=Mid}}
{{archive box|auto=yes}}
{{User:ClueBot III/ArchiveThis
|archiveprefix=Talk:Royal Rumble/Archives/
|format=Y/F
|age=72
|index=yes
}}
	</talkpage>
</article>