<article id="37134680" title=Talk:Write-only memory>
	<talkpage id="37134680" title="Talk:Write-only memory">
&lt;!-- #REDIRECT [[Talk:Write-only memory (joke)]] --&gt;
== Merge or redirect to [[Write-only]] ==
It appears that [[Write-only]] currently includes all the links that are here. I don't believe a formal merge is necessary, just a quick redirect. Any comments/objections? (I will take care of any double-redirect fixing by myself.)

What would the applicable [[WP:Categorizing redirects|redirect category]] be? My understanding is that without a formal merge, {{tlx|r from merge}} does not apply, and we'd fall back on {{tlx|r from ambiguous page}}. --[[User:SoledadKabocha|SoledadKabocha]] ([[User talk:SoledadKabocha|talk]]) 05:37, 24 April 2014 (UTC)
:I don't see any point in redirecting to another dab page.  Anyone searching for &quot;write-only memory&quot; is not going to be looking for any of those other things. If articles are linking here they need disambiguating and redirecting to another dab means they need even more disambiguating.  I think it is fine as it is, but since there are only two entries, it could be redirected to one of them and a hatnote used to find the other. To do that, of course, one would have to make a decision on which one has the main meaning, and I don't think either article can unarguably lay claim to that. '''[[User:Spinningspark|&lt;font style=&quot;background:#fafad2;color:#C08000&quot;&gt;Spinning&lt;/font&gt;]][[User talk:Spinningspark|&lt;font style=&quot;color:#4840a0&quot;&gt;Spark&lt;/font&gt;]]''' 07:02, 24 April 2014 (UTC)
::To address &quot;any point in redirecting to another dab page,&quot; I thought of this as functionally an [[:Category:Redirects from incomplete disambiguations|incomplete disambiguation]], except that it doesn't have a parenthetical disambiguator and hence doesn't technically qualify for that Rcat. That's why I suggested {{tlx|r from ambiguous page}}; I did glance at the contents of that category and find some of them analogous.
::As for the possibility of a primary topic, I'm aware that you moved what was originally at this title to [[Write-only memory (joke)]], but my feeling is that the other meaning is more primary.
::Redirect or not, would it help to reorganize [[Write-only]] to be more similar to this page? Would doing so count as a merge, or at least as preparation for one? --[[User:SoledadKabocha|SoledadKabocha]] ([[User talk:SoledadKabocha|talk]]) 07:57, 24 April 2014 (UTC)
:::Everything is fine as it is.  What is the problem you are trying to address?  If there isn't one it is a waste of effort to change anything and you risk actually creating a problem. '''[[User:Spinningspark|&lt;font style=&quot;background:#fafad2;color:#C08000&quot;&gt;Spinning&lt;/font&gt;]][[User talk:Spinningspark|&lt;font style=&quot;color:#4840a0&quot;&gt;Spark&lt;/font&gt;]]''' 08:48, 24 April 2014 (UTC)
::::The problem is the duplication of links between this page and [[Write-only]]. --[[User:SoledadKabocha|SoledadKabocha]] ([[User talk:SoledadKabocha|talk]]) 17:15, 24 April 2014 (UTC)
:::::Why is that a problem? It's both harmless and useful.  Strictly speaking, the links should not be on [[Write-only]] per [[WP:PTM]] because they are partial matches, but in this case it seems plausible to me that someone might search on &quot;write-only&quot; when they wanted &quot;write-only memory&quot;. '''[[User:Spinningspark|&lt;font style=&quot;background:#fafad2;color:#C08000&quot;&gt;Spinning&lt;/font&gt;]][[User talk:Spinningspark|&lt;font style=&quot;color:#4840a0&quot;&gt;Spark&lt;/font&gt;]]''' 18:51, 24 April 2014 (UTC)
:::::Does that mean that the [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Write-only&amp;diff=514786686&amp;oldid=375806267 duplicate links on ''Write-only''] could be removed and replaced with a new section &quot;See also [[Write-only memory (disambiguation)|Write-only memory]]&quot; (NB: following [[WP:INTDABLINK]] here)? --[[User:SoledadKabocha|SoledadKabocha]] ([[User talk:SoledadKabocha|talk]]) 00:59, 25 April 2014 (UTC)
::::::Yes, if you really need to go to that complicaton, but see the last paragraph of [[WP:DABNAME]].  You would need to link through a redirect rather than directly. '''[[User:Spinningspark|&lt;font style=&quot;background:#fafad2;color:#C08000&quot;&gt;Spinning&lt;/font&gt;]][[User talk:Spinningspark|&lt;font style=&quot;color:#4840a0&quot;&gt;Spark&lt;/font&gt;]]''' 09:20, 25 April 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>