<article id="17197768" title=User talk:Mmunn39>
	<talkpage id="17197768" title="User talk:Mmunn39">
'''Welcome!'''

Hello, {{BASEPAGENAME}}, and [[Wikipedia:Introduction|welcome]] to Wikipedia! Thank you for [[Special:Contributions/{{BASEPAGENAME}}|your contributions]]{{#if:|, especially what you did for [[{{{art}}}]]|}}. I hope you like the place and decide to stay. Here are some pages that you might find helpful:
*[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
*[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]]
*[[Wikipedia:Article development|How to write a great article]]
*[[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]]
I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! Please [[Wikipedia:Signatures|sign]] your messages on [[Wikipedia:talk page|discussion page]]s using four [[tilde]]s (&lt;nowiki&gt;~~~~&lt;/nowiki&gt;); this will automatically insert your username and the date. If you need help, check out [[Wikipedia:Questions]], ask me on {{#if:Le Grand Roi des Citrouilles|[[user talk:Le Grand Roi des Citrouilles|my talk page]]|my talk page}}, or ask your question on this page and then place &lt;code&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;{{helpme}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;&lt;/code&gt; before the question. Again, welcome! &lt;!-- Template:Welcome --&gt; --&lt;font face=&quot;Times New Roman&quot;&gt;[[User:Le Grand Roi des Citrouilles|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#009&quot;&gt;Le Grand Roi des Citrouilles&lt;/span&gt;]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;sup&gt;''[[User talk:Le Grand Roi des Citrouilles|Tally-ho!]]''&lt;/sup&gt; 17:12, 30 April 2008 (UTC)

==Tom Gamboa incident==
My source says that the attackers were William Ligue, Jr. and William Ligue, Sr. What source do you have that says they were William Ligue, Jr. and Michael Ligue? -[[User:Drdisque|Drdisque]] ([[User talk:Drdisque|talk]]) 18:26, 23 July 2009 (UTC)

I was utilizing the information from this story.  http://cbs2chicago.com/topstories/Michael.Ligue.William.2.335758.html.
Michael is 19 in this 2007.  Since he was 14 at the time of the Gamboa incident, it seemed it would be he and not William as the other perpetrator.  However, it does not specifically state he was the other person, who charged Gamboa, as he was a minor, thus his name is sealed in court documents.  That being said, it could not be William Jr as many bloggers have posted, as William Jr is actually the name of the 34-year-old father in the Gamboa incident.  So if it were his son with the name of William it would have to be William Ligue, III as William Ligue, Sr would actually be the grandfather of the 14-year-old perpetrator in the incident with Gamboa. - --[[User:Mmunn39|Mmunn39]] ([[User talk:Mmunn39#top|talk]]) 14:49, 29 July 2009 (UTC)

After some more research, it appears original post is somewhat correct as Michael was not the son who left the seats, it was older brother Billy (William Ligue,III I presume).  Michael was the son that the father Willaim Ligue, Jr gave his keys and cell phone to prior to storming the field with his other son.  --[[User:Mmunn39|Mmunn39]] ([[User talk:Mmunn39#top|talk]]) 15:23, 29 July 2009 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>