<article id="20147241" title=Talk:Reese Williams and Bianca Montgomery>
	<talkpage id="20147241" title="Talk:Reese Williams and Bianca Montgomery">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Television| class=B | importance=mid }} 
{{WikiProject Soap Operas| class=B }} 
{{WikiProject LGBT studies| class=B | importance=mid }}
{{WikiProject Fictional characters|class=B|importance=low}}}}
{{Old AfD multi|date= 10 November 2008|result= '''Nomination withdrawn'''}}

== Not the First Gay Marriage on TV ==

This article currently says this was the first gay marriage &quot;within American culture&quot;— whatever the heck that is supposed to mean.  If the writer meant this was the first gay marriage on a popular TV series, he or she is wrong: it is far from the first.  There was a gay marriage as far back as the early 1990s on the weekly [[dramedy]] [[Northern Exposure]], and there have been others since then. [[User:TimothyHorrigan|Timothy Horrigan]] ([[User talk:TimothyHorrigan|talk]]) 01:49, 6 January 2010 (UTC)
:Reese and Bianca's wedding/marriage was the first gay/lesbian marriage on an American soap opera/daytime drama, which the lead (intro) very clearly states. This is backed up by various reliable sources. It did/does not say &quot;the first gay marriage on television ever.&quot; It is distinguished by the words &quot;American,&quot; &quot;soap opera&quot; and &quot;daytime drama.&quot; Yes, part of the lead says &quot;Though the wedding received praise for being the first within American culture,&quot; but most people should realize that we are speaking of the first within American soap opera...since that is specified earlier. If you feel that we need to put &quot;soap opera&quot; or &quot;daytime drama&quot; yet again, then that can be done. And judging by your misunderstanding, we might need to. [[User:Flyer22|Flyer22]] ([[User talk:Flyer22|talk]]) 02:19, 17 February 2010 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>