<article id="4066057" title=User talk:69.181.159.80>
	<talkpage id="4066057" title="User talk:69.181.159.80">
Thank you for your contributions to Wikipedia. As a member of the Wikipedia community, I would like to remind you of [[Wikipedia:Neutral point of view|Wikipedia's neutral-point-of-view]] policy for editors. In the meantime, please '''[[Wikipedia:Be bold in updating pages|be bold]]''' and continue contributing to Wikipedia. Thank you! &lt;!-- Template:NPOV_user --&gt;  - [[User:Damicatz|Damicatz]] 06:18, 14 February 2006 (UTC)

== [[WP:3RR|Three revert rule]] ==

Please be aware of the [[WP:3RR|three revert rule]]. In brief, you may not revert changes to a page more than three times in a 24-hour period, otherwise you may be blocked. You may find it helpful to use the article's discussion page instead, where you can discuss the contested change with other editors, and find a consensus. [[User:Jakew|Jakew]] 21:34, 14 February 2006 (UTC)

== Third person and [[NPOV]] ==

Hi! This is regarding your edits of [[National Organization of Circumcision Information Resource Centers]]. When making your edits, please remember the following: Wikipedia is an encyclopedia. As an encyclopedia, it should not be in the first person, and should adhere to the policy of [[neutral point of view]]. For other policies that may help you, please see [[Wikipedia:Policies]]. Thanks. [[User:EWS23|EWS23]] | [[User talk:EWS23|(Leave me a message!)]] 03:00, 15 February 2006 (UTC)

: Please do this.  We can't accept contributions written in a biased style, or in the first person.  If you make your contributions in approved format, we'll be happy to have them.  [[User:Robth|Robth]]&lt;sup&gt;[[User Talk:Robth|Talk]]&lt;/sup&gt; 03:34, 15 February 2006 (UTC)

== About removing your company's page ==

Hi! Thanks for sending me a message. Generally, Wikipedia does not accept requests from individuals or organizations to be removed. Wikipedia is an encyclopedia, and if something is notable enough to have an article written about them, then Wikipedia strives to have an article about them that is factual and adheres to neutral point of view. However, if you feel your company is not notable enough to have its own encyclopedia article or should be deleted for another reason (see our [[deletion policy]]), then you can nominate the page for deletion by going to [[Articles for Deletion]] and following the steps at the bottom of the page. Let me know if you have any questions. [[User:EWS23|EWS23]] | [[User talk:EWS23|(Leave me a message!)]] 03:49, 15 February 2006 (UTC)

: Thanks for your response. I will try to put the information you have given me into the article in a manner that is factual and in a neutral point of view. Give me a couple minutes as I try to find the right place and wording for this. Thanks. [[User:EWS23|EWS23]] | [[User talk:EWS23|(Leave me a message!)]] 04:09, 15 February 2006 (UTC)
:: Okay, using the information you gave me on my talk page, I tried to write this into the article. Let me know if what I have added is acceptable to you, or if you feel it is slanted in some way. Thanks for the factual clarification. [[User:EWS23|EWS23]] | [[User talk:EWS23|(Leave me a message!)]] 04:20, 15 February 2006 (UTC)

== Please cite your sources ==

Hi! Once again, this is regarding your edit of [[National Organization of Circumcision Information Resource Centers]]. I understand that you have interests in what appears on this page; however, other editors have made efforts to provide factual, neutral statements, and have cited sources to back those up. Please do not remove these comments, and if you want to make your own contributions please cite sources as well. In addition, please avoid [[loaded words]] that may not provide [[neutral point of view]]. Finally, please add comments to [[Talk:National Organization of Circumcision Information Resource Centers]]; if you state your intentions and suggested edits there, perhaps editors will be willing to help you convey those. Thank you. [[User:EWS23|EWS23]] | [[User talk:EWS23|(Leave me a message!)]] 07:28, 16 February 2006 (UTC)

: It is getting tiresome to deal with you. Will you please stop deleting cited material, and replacing with decidedly non-neutral text? [[User:Jakew|Jakew]] 15:48, 16 February 2006 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>