<article id="39737381" title=Talk:La Ciudad Blanca/Archives/%%1>
	<talkpage id="39737381" title="Talk:La Ciudad Blanca/Archives/%%1">
{{Talkarchive}}

== Editing and Revisions by [[User:ThaddeusB]] ==
[[User:ThaddeusB]], after having paraphrased a popular magazine article from the ''New Yorker''--not scientific sources--to substantially revise this article, has repeatedly made edits and changes with minimal discussion of the rationale for those on this talk page. I would like to complain about his heavy-handed and biased approach, which has ignored the role that talk pages for articles should play in discussions about changes or revisions to articles. [[User:ThaddeusB]] is using his status as a Wikipedia editor to insert personal bias and diminish the value of his article to users. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 16:33, 6 June 2013 (UTC)

:The only one trying to insert their personal bias is you.  You have been repeatedly been invited to provide reliable sources to back up your claims and have repeatedly insisted you don't need any because they are true.  See also [[WP:RS]], [[WP:BOLD]]. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 19:21, 6 June 2013 (UTC)
::That is simply false. I have provided reliable sources for every instance in which one has been requested. I have not repeatedly insisted that I did not need them. If anything, I raised questions about whether source material from linked Wikipedia articles needed to be cited ''again'' in this article if the linked material made a fact clear. You, on the other hand, have repeatedly inserted personal bias through the inclusion of irrelevant paraphrased and quoted material from a single source (Preston's ''New Yorker'' article). You seem to have trouble understanding what's meant by [[bias]]. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 21:23, 6 June 2013 (UTC)
::No, you haven't.  Multiple examples have been given on this page (after you wasted days complaining about how you didn't need sources I might add).  Others have been flagged and not fixed for extended periods.  I have no personal bias and you stating it over and over and over and over and over and over again doesn't make it true.  Using a source heavily doesn't mean I'm biased, no mater how very very badly you believe it does. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 02:49, 7 June 2013 (UTC)

The pattern of persistent edits of my changes by [[User:ThaddeusB]] is on that subtly but consistently gives the article a sensational character. This includes the use of direct quotations such as &quot;Sartori ran out, shouting to Elkins, 'There's something in the valley!'&quot; that really have no place in an encyclopedia entry as well as systematic repeated removal of relevant references to the background, experience, and specific academic qualifications of archaeologists Rosemary Joyce and Chris Fisher. This has the effect of highlighting the emotions of individuals with little archaeological training while diminishing the relevance of the credentials of qualified scientists. It gives the article an inappropriate, sensational spin (perhaps inspired by Douglas Preston's compelling ''New Yorker'' article, which has been extensively paraphrased and excerpted by [[User:ThaddeusB]]) while at the same time diminishing its objective, scientific content. I think this is completely unacceptable, especially considering the direct role that popularization, speculation, and hype has played and continues to play in perpetuating widespread ignorance and the rampant looting of archaeological sites. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 17:21, 6 June 2013 (UTC)

:Your repeated accusations of bad faith are not the least bit helpful.  Conveying the excitement is perfectly relevant - in part it shows that the team was ''not'' doing science.  Listing the university someone works for is of minimal value to begin with and when it takes 100 characters to explain their qualifications when they have a total of one line in the article is a complete distraction for no reason.  Saying Joyce is an expert on Honduran archeology provides way more value to her opinion than saying she works at UC Berkley. It is only in your mind that I am trying to disqualify her opinion.  In fact it you excessive detail that diminishes her input to the reader. As long as we are talking about unacceptable editing, I find your insistence that you don't need sources to back your opinion because it is right to be quite appalling.  For the millionth time, this is an article about a '''''legend''''' and the history of it.  It is not an article about Honduran archeology.  Inserting random facts (without citing any sources I might add) about Honduran archaeology is a distraction. No one with two ounces of intelligence would read this article and come away thinking &quot;this city was real&quot;. But once again, if you have academic sources that talk about ''the legend'', not Honduran archaeology in general with no mention of it, then please do provide them.  You don't even have to do the work of inserting the material if that's too much trouble - I'll do it for you if you provide a source, but inserting your opinion and calling it well known fact is not acceptable.--[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 19:21, 6 June 2013 (UTC)
::Your personal interpretation of what this article is &quot;about&quot; is not helpful, either. If it is in fact &quot;an article about a '''''legend''''' and the history of it,&quot; then why does it contain so much detailed information about LiDAR? The reality is that there is actually precious little either to or about the legend itself, so this article has actually become one about both the legend and the ''evaluations'' of it, whether they are scientific or not. With regard to issues of credentials, identifying the institution with which an &quot;expert on Honduran archaeology&quot; is based is directly relevant. In the history of Ciudad Blanca, there are all kinds of people who have identified themselves as &quot;experts on Honduran archaeology,&quot; whether they really are or aren't. Systematically and consistently providing institutional affiliations (for Joyce, Begley, Fisher, etc.) is a way of indicating specific credentials. If the article is going to identify Joyce as an &quot;expert on Honduran archaeology,&quot; then why shouldn't it identify Fisher as an &quot;expert on Mexican archaeology&quot; (especially when he is NOT an expert on Honduran archaeology, which is relevant to assessing credentials)? I have not at all claimed that sources are not needed to back facts. In fact, I have provided sources ''every time'' they have been requested. However, it's a bit ironic that you seem to feel that Preston's article is authoritative when in fact it ''does not even come close'' to the standards of source citation that you are requiring for this article. If you would like to point out where I have inserted opinion and called it well-known fact, I'd be happy to address that. However, you are not even raising these issues on the article's talk page before acting upon them based upon your own opinions and wishful thinking. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 21:23, 6 June 2013 (UTC)
:::I've flagged your opinions and explained to you they are opinions dozens of times.  If you can't supply a source taht somethign is related to Ciudad Blanca, it isn't related except in your mind, which makes it your opinion.  I waited 8 days for you to provide references for the information I deleted before I deleted it. You failed, but if you can provide relevant citations please do so and restore the info.  I don't think any single source is authortative, least of all you - which is the only source for teh info you've inserted.You repeatidly making such false accusations saying its my fantasy, etc. does make it true. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 22:59, 6 June 2013 (UTC)
::::Can you point me to a single request for a citation that has not received a response? I'm sorry if you had to wait eight days. I was out-of-town with limited online access. Quality can wait. Your impatience is no excuse for reverting the article to your extensive paraphrase of Preston's article. Your repeated accusations that I am not supplying sources does not make it true. Your problem (and your bias) is that you are relying too heavily upon a single, not especially authoritative source. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 23:04, 6 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::You haven't provided a single source that talks about Lost World literature in relation to Ciudad Blanca.  You haven't provided a source for any part of &quot;Although there have been suggestions that la Ciudad Blanca was a [[Mesoamerica]]n or even [[Maya civilization|Maya]] settlement, its supposed location is far to the east of the boundaries of Mesoamerica and the known territory of the Maya.&quot; and that's just two of many off the top of my head.  --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 23:22, 6 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::And as I've said several times, teh reason there is a good amount of Preston is because I prefer to edit form one source completely, then move on to the next, not because I find it specially authoritative.  The article is ''incomplete'' - you can complain about it or you can help but adding material that is directly relevant ''according to sources''. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 23:25, 6 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::I ''have'' been adding material that is directly relevant according to sources. I have even been ''citing'' those sources. I have also been seeking to actively improve the article by editing and removing portions that are irrelevant and/or represent excessive, biased citation from a single popular, non-scientific magazine article. My complaints are about the bias that has resulted from your own excessive reliance on a single source and about your deletion of material that I think it significant and relevant ''even when it is sourced''. You're absolutely right, this article is ''incomplete''. Your unjustified editing has been an impediment to making it more complete. If there is a statement that needs to be sourced, ''flag it'' and say so, don't just delete it because you don't like it. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 02:37, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::You have sourced with ''revelent sources'' a few things and those things have stayed.  I did flag the offending material and you didn't fix it so I deleted it after waiting more than a week.  You reverted in back, citation needed tag and all, so I deleted it again.  Please readd when you find a relevant source to back your opinion. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 02:45, 7 June 2013 (UTC)

== Fisher ==
Please provide a citation for Fisher being an &quot;expert&quot; on Mexican archeology. That is a non-neutral assessment fo his ability that needs a source --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 23:38, 6 June 2013 (UTC)

:Please provide a citation for Joyce being an &quot;expert&quot; on Honduran archeology. That is a non-neutral assessment of her ability that needs a source. At least, that would be the requirement according to your standards. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 01:51, 7 June 2013 (UTC)

:I think you are getting ridiculous now. In my opinion, someone who is a tenured professor with a particular area of specialization should be considered to be an expert in their field. What is ''your'' opinion of what constitutes an expert? The fact that someone--regardless of their own qualifications or credentials--has published a magazine article or a popular book in which they express their own opinion saying that they are? [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 01:51, 7 June 2013 (UTC)

::Joyce's expert status is supported by citation.  The only thing ridiculous is that you criticize my sources and yet refuse to provide ''any'' of your own.  Your opinion isn't relevant, as usual. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 02:40, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
:::I'm sorry, but I don't see the citation that supports Joyce's expert status. Do you mean the reference to her own blog post? [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 03:14, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
::::It is in Preston's article, which was the citation used to support the sentence before you changed it.  Of course that isn't a valid source according to you.
:::Your opinion is becoming less and less relevant every time you repeat the [[malicious falsehood|falsehood]] that I refuse to provide any sources. It simply isn't true. I have provided ''many'' sources, whether in direct response to your comments or not. Flag whatever you think needs a source and I'll provide one. However, what you think needs a source and what doesn't has been arbitrary, capricious, and highly subjective. The fact that you repeatedly cite the ''same source'', an unreliable magazine article, doesn't inspire much confidence in your own ability to identify or use appropriate sources. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 03:10, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
::::Your attitude throughout this doesn't inspire any confidence in your ability to be the least bit reasonable.  You can think ill of me all you like (and clear think I am a moron) but that doesn't make it true. And for you to talk about repeating malicious falsehoods is beyond laughable considering how many times you have repeated the same garbage about me. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 03:23, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::First off, I don't think you're a [[Moron (psychology)|moron]] (an archaic and insulting concept I don't even use and would advise you to eliminate from your own vocabulary). I do think that you have been stubborn and unreasonable and am somewhat mystified as to why you have made certain changes to the article without explaining why. I will refrain from complaining about your undue influence by Preston if you will refrain from the false claim that I have refused to provide sources, which has been blatantly untrue from the beginning. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 04:34, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::I think likewise about you (that you've been unreasonable and stubborn), and have been baffled by some of your edits.  However, I think we are finally coming to an understanding.  You say you are willing to stick to sources that mention the legend going forward, even if you don't agree with that requirement, and I respect that agreement.  You say I have over relied on a single source, and I will work to fix that, even though I don't agree.  So I think we are definitely on the right track. I won't talk about your (past) behavior anymore. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 05:13, 7 June 2013 (UTC)

:::Furthermore, your repeated deletion of my edits has had a distinctly [[Chilling effect (law)|chilling effect]] on my willingness to devote time to improving this article. Before I spend any more of my time doing this, may I have your assurance that you will engage in a discussion on this talk page ''before'' proceeding to delete or reverse the edits and additions that I make? [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 03:17, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
::::I won't promise not to delete weasel violations, but otherwise sure I won't delete anything.  But ''please'' stick to sources about Ciudad Blanca.  Things that you think are related, but no one else has drawn the connection do not belong in the article. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 03:23, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::Thanks. You ''should'' delete weasel violations. I will stick to published sources that mention Ciudad Blanca. However, I do think that you are being unnecessarily strict, especially given that there is a huge amount of relevant scientific literature that does not mention Ciudad Blanca ''precisely because it is a legend and not a real place''. Note that by your standards, any references to the archaeology of eastern Honduras that refrain from referring to this imaginary place are irrelevant. The only thing that would qualify something to be included is that it mentions this legend. In fact, you are not even permitting ''links to other Wikipedia articles'' that would clarify: 1) why Ciudad Blanca may not be an appropriate concept in Honduran archaeology, and 2) the larger context of legend and fantasy within which Ciudad Blanca ''can'' be understood. This is one reason why I think it may be advisable to split the article about the legend of Ciudad Blanca from one about archaeological investigations in eastern Honduras (which would include the ''scientific'' results of the UTL project). [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 04:27, 7 June 2013 (UTC)

== Archaeological interpretations ==

Note that I have changed the title of the section &quot;Archaeological theories&quot; to &quot;Archaeological investigations&quot; in order to clarify the actual content (which in fact discusses little in the way of [[archaeological theory]]). I have also moved the paragraphs pertaining to Fisher's archaeological research with the UTL project to this section in order to keep information on archaeological investigations by professional archaeologists together in a single section. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 02:56, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
:No objection to this or any of your other most recent edits. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 03:34, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
::Good. We may be making progress. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 04:16, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
== Terminology ==
In Spanish, the place is referred to as &quot;''la Ciudad Blanca''.&quot; However, in English the article is not necessary for a foreign [[toponym]], and so it can be referred to as simply &quot;Ciudad Blanca.&quot; Note that the correct translation would be &quot;the White City,&quot; but untranslated foreign toponyms are commonly used for legendary places and archaeological sites. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 23:20, 23 May 2013 (UTC)
:Correct, but it often reads better with la IMO. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 01:06, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
::I'm not sure what you mean by &quot;reads better&quot; unless you're reading in Spanglish. The Spanish article ''la'' is gramatically incorrect in English. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 02:02, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
:::Its not &quot;incorrect&quot; when you are referring to a proper noun.  For example, no one would refer to &quot;Les Misérables&quot; as simply &quot;Misérables&quot; or &quot;the Misérables&quot;.  Wherever it would be natural for a &quot;the&quot; to appear, it makes perfect sense to use the &quot;la&quot;. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 03:14, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
::::I disagree. Sorry, but ''Les Misérables'' is the actual, published title of an established literary work. It's the full proper noun. There is no parallel with the use of ''la Ciudad Blanca'', a Spanish toponym that for some reason remains untranslated into English. Why not just go with the White City? Why is Ciudad Blanca capitalized? Why not just ''la ciudad blanca''? If you're asserting that &quot;La Ciudad Blanca&quot; is the correct proper noun, then why are you not capitalizing the ''la''? Wouldn't the article always be capitalized in ''La Cucaracha'' (not ''la Cucaracha'')? As someone who has over thirty years' experience of dealing with Spanish proper nouns in English literature, I can assure you that simply asserting the Spanish article in '''la''' Ciudad Blanca into English text is incorrect. Ask a proofreader. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 05:18, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
::::Another useful parallel might be [[El Dorado]], the name of another city of legend. It would be incorrect to write '''el''' Dorado. That said, as a professional archaeologist specializing in Central America I've had conversations about Ciudad Blanca in both English and Spanish for decades. In English it's almost always just Ciudad Blanca while in Spanish it's ''la Ciudad Blanca''. Last time I checked, this Wikipedia article was in English. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 05:22, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
:::::You disagree, but it is not a question of correctness; it is a question of style.  As you note, it is a Spanish phrase and as such different authors treat it differently based on their writing style guidelines. Usage in English varies - most often just &quot;Ciudad Blanca&quot;, but also &quot;el Ciudad Blanca&quot;, and &quot;El Ciudada Blanca&quot;, or even &quot;the Ciudad Blanca&quot; are sometimes used.  Only one of these may be correct ''to you'', but [[WP:ENGVAR|different people have different versions of English]], follow different writing styles, etc.  Wikipedia accepts this and allows more than one &quot;correct&quot; usage.  In any case, &quot;la&quot; is used infrequently in this article as is. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 14:10, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
::::::I disagree, but it ''is'' a question of correctness, not style. &quot;Ciudad Blanca&quot; is a Spanish proper noun that does not require the article ''la'' when it is written in English. The correct English article is &quot;the&quot; and the correct translation would be &quot;the White City.&quot; Anyone literate in Spanish could tell you that &quot;el Ciudad Blanca&quot; is ''always'' incorrect (''ciudad'' is a feminine noun and therefore requires agreement in feminine articles such as ''la'' and adjectives such as ''blanca''). &quot;El Ciudada Blanca&quot; would be completely incorrect (the word &quot;ciudada&quot; does not exist in Spanish and ''el'' would be an incorrect masculine article for a noun for which the associated adjective is feminine). Even if the issue were only one of style, it should be apparent from the standards used by Reuters, the Associated Press, the ''Huffington Post'', and virtually every major English news source that almost none are using &quot;la Ciudad Blanca&quot; but only &quot;Ciudad Blanca.&quot; (The one exception seems to be the ''New Yorker'', whose journalistic standards on Preston's article seem to me to be quite low.) [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 18:09, 4 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::This paragraph is a perfect illustration of what is wrong with your attitude.  If someone dares disagree with you, even over something as trivial as spelling, it is ''obviously'' because they have &quot;low journalistic standards&quot; not because they use a different style guide.  Unreal. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 19:30, 6 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::::The above comment does not address the cogent point made by the previous comment. It is not for us to determine what style to be used, or what is or isn't correct. We are to reflect the sources. if the majority of the reputable sources use &quot;La&quot;, we use &quot;la', and vice versa. A quick Google search seems to support not using &quot;la&quot;. And you would do well to avoid ad hominem attacks. This is not a discussion forum, this is a wiki talk page. Please refrain from commenting on the poster, and stick to commenting about the post. Sneering at his assessment of the NY'er while not materially addressing teh point he/she made is bad form.[[Special:Contributions/204.65.34.238|204.65.34.238]] ([[User talk:204.65.34.238|talk]]) 13:32, 10 June 2013 (UTC) 
::::::::: The same could be said for your comment. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 02:53, 12 June 2013 (UTC)

The term [[rainforest]], which refers to a specific ecological habitat, is preferable to &quot;jungle,&quot; which is more common in non-scientific literature. Phrases such as &quot;inhospitable jungle&quot; are deeply [[ethnocentrism|ethnocentric]] and should be avoided. For the indigenous residents of Mosquitia, both ancient and living, the rain forests of eastern Honduras were and are quite obviously hospitable and have been so for many thousands of years. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 23:20, 23 May 2013 (UTC)

== &quot;Page needed&quot; requests ==
I note that you have added &quot;page needed&quot; requests to several of my citations. I think that this is overly picky, especially in the case of references to R. Tripp Evans' book ''Romancing the Maya,'' in which pretty much the entire book is devoted to romantic arguments about &quot;lost cities&quot; and the issue of Manifest Destiny. However, I will see what I can do. Please either apply the same &quot;page needed&quot; standard to your own citations or remove this requirement, which could be interpreted as a strategy for removing information as &quot;unsourced&quot; when in fact it has been adequately sourced. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 15:40, 11 June 2013 (UTC)

:Actually, I didn't. That was another editor.  Perhaps you shouldn't jump to conclusions.  (For the record, using page numbers is best practice.) --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 03:01, 12 June 2013 (UTC)

== Matters of Style ==
Is there some reason why &quot;City of the Monkey&quot; god keeps being reverted to boldface? Why does this phrase merit boldface? What's the rationale? It is either the name given by Morde to a legendary place or the title of his book, neither of which requires boldface. Putting this phrase in boldface gives it unnecessary significance. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 18:15, 4 June 2013 (UTC)
:Ah, never mind. I see it's because it's an alternative name. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 18:16, 4 June 2013 (UTC)
== Identification in Toltec and Aztec literature and Conquest period references ==
The current citation that &quot;la Ciudad Blanca is the birthplace of the Toltec/Aztec deity and culture hero Quetzalcoatl&quot; comes from a ''Frommer's'' travel book, which is hardly a reliable source. Can someone provide citations to the specific [[Toltec]] and/or [[Aztec]] literature in which this assertion appears (or to a scholarly source that confirms that the story actually appears in these sources)? If there is ''not'' a better source, this information should be deleted or identified as undocumented hearsay. Although it may help perpetuate the legend, ''Frommer's'' is not a reliable source. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 22:32, 11 June 2013 (UTC)a

:It is certainly a valid source that people claim this, which is all the article asserts.  Surely, you are not claiming that no one else makes this claim? --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 02:50, 12 June 2013 (UTC)
::If the issue is that ''Frommer's'' (an unreliable and inappropriate source) claims this, then that context needs to be made clear. I'm not claiming that no one else makes this claim, but '''you are the one who has demanded sources''' and those sources must be reliable ones. Surely you're not claiming that unsourced claims are appropriate to include in this article, especially after having insisted that I provide sources for every statement that's made. ''Frommer's'' may make claims about Ciudad Blanca, but those cannot be presented as documented facts while citing ''Frommer's'' because ''it is not an authoritative or reliable source'' on claims about Toltec or Aztec beliefs. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 20:57, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
:::Reliability is all about context.  In the context of reporting a claim made in (non-scientific) sources, the use of Frommer to demonstrate the claim is made is reliable. I think the context that Frommer's claims this is perfectly clear as is. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 23:31, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
:::I have modified\expanded the material using several sources to clearly indicate that it is (most likely) a late addition to the story.  Hopefully, this alleviates concerns. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 17:34, 14 June 2013 (UTC)

The same is true for the assertion that, &quot;In 1544, Bishop of Honduras, Cristóbal de Pedraza wrote of spotting a 'white city' in unexplored territory as he traveled up the coast. According to his Indian guides, the people of the city ate on plates of gold.&quot; The ''Frommer's'' book is not a reliable source and should be replaced or augmented by a correct reference to either the original source or a reliable scholarly source concerning Bishop Pedraza's claim. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 22:43, 11 June 2013 (UTC)
:Numerous sources contain this claim, including Pedraza's own writing. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 02:50, 12 June 2013 (UTC)
::That may well be true, but '''numerous sources have not been cited'''. The only citation for Pedraza in the section on &quot;Spanish conquest&quot; is the non-authoritative ''Frommer's'' travel guide. If you're claiming it's &quot;included in Pedraza's own writing,&quot; then '''you should provide a source to Pedraza'''. Your insistence that sources be provided while being lax about providing them yourself is disingenuous and exasperating. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 21:04, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
::Another observation about the remark regarding Bishop Pedraza: The claim that the Bishop reported &quot;spotting a 'white city' in unexplored territory as he traveled up the coast&quot; is inconsistent. If he could see it from the coast, it was nowhere near where subsequent claims have placed Ciudad Blanca. Also, if he was traveling and recorded it, this could not have been &quot;unexplored territory&quot; ''since he was exploring it.'' These inconsistencies are the reason why a more reliable citation is required. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 21:14, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
:::It is my intention to replace it with Pedraza's writings when I get a hold of them, but I can't do everything at once.  And traveling up the coast to get to a destination is not the same thing as exploring a forest. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 23:31, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
::::The article is not your intended content but its ''actual'' content. You have complained about me being too slow to make changes and you're right, it is not possible to do &quot;everything at once.&quot; However, as you yourself have insisted, ''statements require sources.'' With regard to your second comment, what does &quot;exploring a forest&quot; have to do with it? A coastline is a territory. Traveling along it and making observations is exploring it. A coast where this has been done is technically ''not'' &quot;unexplored territory.&quot; [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 01:06, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::Actually one ''can'' travel in unexplored territory, and he saw the &quot;city&quot; in the distance not where he was.  Your instance on playing word games is not helpful. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 01:09, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
*I agree that travel guides are not to be considered reliable sources regarding the Mesoamerican past or contemporary archaeology. The claim is also not particularly notable. The source for Pedraza should be a scholarly secondary source analyzing Pedrazas writing, not the primary source itself. Also: there is no such thing as &quot;Toltec literature&quot;.[[User talk:Maunus|User:Maunus ·ʍaunus·snunɐw·]] 01:37, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
**There are approximately 0 scholarly sources (maybe 1 or 2 at most) on the legend.  The claim, however, is cited by most sources - reliable by wikipedia definitions, but not scholarly - that that discuss the legend. Is your position that an article on the legend should not exist? --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 02:10, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::The reason we want scholarly sources is because otherwise wikipedia risks inventing a legend that doesnt in fact exist and which is just being promoted by tourist guides and sensationalist media. So yes, we are not Urbandictionary.com We shouldnt have articles on legends in the making. I have not reviewed all the sources here so I dont know if there is a basis or not, but I do see a lot of reliance on sources that simply do not establish the existence or notability of the legend.[[User talk:Maunus|User:Maunus ·ʍaunus·snunɐw·]] 17:58, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::I certainly agree that we should use the best sources available.  However, I dispute (and consensus based policy agrees) that we can't use mass media news stories.  Ideally, each source should be evaluated independently.  (Generally speaking, not about anything specific to this article,) not all peer-reviewed journal articles are excellent sources and not all media reports are poor sources.  Context matters a great deal as to what is relevant and reliable, what is reliable but not relevant, and what is unreliable. 
:::If you believe the &quot;legend&quot; doesn't really exist, then all I can suggest is nominate it for deletion. Basically all the material is based on the same kind of sources - news media articles and informal postings by academics - so I don't see how selectively deleting some parts will help improve the overall accuracy of the article. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 19:19, 14 June 2013 (UTC)

== Under the LiDAR (UTL) project ==
I've been working to tighten up the discussion of this project, which currently dominates this article due to extensive paraphrase of a single source. It would be better to have information from multiple, authoritative sources that focus on the project's evaluation of ''the legend''. Discussion of the specifics of the history of the remote sensing research is less relevant and will presumably become even less so as future on-the-ground exploration is undertaken. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 23:35, 11 June 2013 (UTC)

:I really wish you had held to our agreement, as I was planning on splitting UTL out and reducing to more relevant details (per your suggestion, I might add)... I restored a few things that I need for the split.  If you could have some patience, the section will likely be cut in half or so after the split. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 04:12, 12 June 2013 (UTC)
::I wasn't aware that we had an &quot;agreement&quot;, though I thought we agreed that the scientific content on the UTL project ''might'' merit an independent Wikipedia article. At this point, however, I think such an article would be challenged on the basis of [[Wikipedia:Notability]]. There really aren't very many sources on it. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 01:10, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::There are 811 news stories (according to Google News) on it in the last month alone.  Two are required to establish notability.  It was your suggestion to begin with, and I tentatively agreed.  To now say we didn't agree looks like trying to be difficult on purpose. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 01:15, 14 June 2013 (UTC)

:Overall, though, I found the most recent edits to be mostly productive. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 04:22, 12 June 2013 (UTC)
::Thanks. However, while your opinion matters, it shouldn't be the only one. This is not ''your'' article. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 01:11, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::Amazing, even a statement of agreement is twisted into something negative by you. Add [[WP:OWN]] to your false attacks against me. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 01:17, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::::A &quot;false attack&quot; does not exist unless it has been actually made. You are imagining things. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 01:27, 14 June 2013 (UTC)

== Discussion with [[User:ThaddeusB]] ==
This has been copied to this talk page from the talk page of [[User:ThaddeusB]]

=== La Ciudad Blanca ===

I'm an archaeologist at the [[University of Kansas]] who specializes in cultures of both [[Mesoamerica]] and the [[Isthmo-Colombian Area]]. I've been following the recent edits to the article on [[La Ciudad Blanca]], many of which have been made by Chris Fisher of [[Colorado State University]], the project archaeologist. I think it's important to retain corrections to facts, including the acknowledgement that the region of eastern [[Honduras]] in which the legend of Ciudad Blanca is located, a region corresponding roughly with the [[Río Plátano Biosphere Reserve]] in [[La Mosquitia]] is not within Mesoamerica but rather the Isthmo-Colombian Area. I will be reviewing the content of the article for accuracy and would be happy to answer any specific questions that you or other Wikipedia editors may have. I do understand the reasonable cautions, but think it is essential to get basic facts correct with appropriate documentation. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 19:56, 23 May 2013 (UTC)

:If by &quot;many&quot; edits you mean 2, you are correct.  Please note that the actual corrections (which were minor details, not &quot;basic facts&quot;) were left in tact.  However, his edit also introduced an error (changed a direct quote of Elkins) and general were puffery.  I'm sure it was not his intention to introduce such bias, but when you are that close to the subject you can't be objective.  This is why we have [[WP:COI|guidelines]] on editing when one has a conflict of interest. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB#top|talk]]) 23:03, 23 May 2013 (UTC)
:P.S. Nice work expanding it with your own edits. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB#top|talk]]) 00:13, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
::I think it's essential for the article to sustain a neutral, &quot;just the facts&quot; tone rather than to promote any particular individual's personal thoughts, feelings, excitement, interpretations, etc. just because those have been documented in popular magazine articles or similar sources. Archaeologists who have dealt with this topic have emotions, too. They just don't typically publish those in dissertations and scientific articles. An important function of this article is to make it clear what is known and what is not, especially given a tendency to exaggerate how &quot;unknown&quot; or &quot;mysterious&quot; the region is. The fact is, it is not &quot;unknown&quot; to the people who actually live there, including both indigenous people and settlers from outside. It is also not as &quot;mysterious&quot; to archaeologists as some would assert. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 01:04, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
:::Well, the most essential thing is to stick to what sources say.  [[WP:V|Verifiability]] is a [[WP:5 pillars|pillar]] of Wikipedia.  This is key to neutrality.  &quot;Correcting&quot; things to fit one's own understanding of the facts is, in actuality, non-neutral. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB#top|talk]]) 01:09, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
::::Yes, of course. If there are facts that require additional documentation in source material, flag them and I will provide the citations necessary to document [[WP:V|Verifiability]]. Neutrality is lost when the only sources used represent bias, as is true with the repeated citations of a recent popular article in the ''New Yorker'' that presents a specific point of view. Please note that I have changed one of the subheadings of the article from the name of a living individual to the name of a project. Given current commercial interests in the production and promotion of a future documentary film as well as a recent science fiction film (which goes on sale ''tomorrow'' in DVD and Blu-Ray formats) and a recent mass-market nonfiction travel-adventure book, I think it is important to be alert to the use of this Wikipedia article for promotional purposes. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 01:46, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
:::::Considering I wrote Elkins material, I can be pretty certain it wasn't added in an attempt to promote anything. :)  We can only use the sources that exist; the ''New Yorker'' article is excellent - much better than most other sources.  Of course if you can find scientific critique of the the Elkins material, that would be great, but I don't believe any exists yet.  --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB#top|talk]]) 02:18, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
::::::I wouldn't be so certain of yourself. Are you aware that Douglas Preston, the author of the ''New Yorker'' article, is a bestselling writer who is also seeking to profit from a book about the making of the documentary film? As someone familiar with the scientific literature, I can assure you that the ''New Yorker'' article, although an entertaining read, is actually not so &quot;excellent&quot; when it comes to the facts. For a scientific critique of Elkins, I refer you to this blog post from a year ago by UC-Berkeley archaeologist Rosemary Joyce, perhaps the world's most reliable source on the archaeology of Honduras: [http://blogs.berkeley.edu/2012/06/07/good-science-big-hype-bad-archaeology/ Good science, big hype, bad archaeology]. With all due respect, I think your copious, uncritical, and poorly informed paraphrase of Preston's ''New Yorker'' article for large sections of this Wikipedia article does not represent the best Wikipedia practice. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 04:46, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
:::::::Kettle, Black.  I would say adding your own opinions to the article, and especially changing sourced lines to say different things while leaving the source in tact, &quot;does not represent the best Wikipedia practice.&quot;  Joyce's so-called critique of the archeology is actually a rant against the sensationalism of the journalism (and the UTL people for seeking the publicity).  She hadn't even seen the images at the time.  (It also actually was already in the article before your post here).  As to Preston, he write regularly about archaeology and has earned a reputation for reliable scientific reporting.  He is a much better source than 95% of the available writings on the subject.  He is not &quot;seeking to profit&quot; anymore than any other writer is, so I guess that means every paid journalist is unreliable. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB#top|talk]]) 05:06, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
:::::::And for the record, the article is still very much a work in progress.  It is my intention to expand on previous tries using a variety of sources over time.  It is, however, my style to finish with one source before moving on to the next. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB#top|talk]]) 05:28, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
::::::::Whether every paid journalist is unreliable is a debatable point. What counts for &quot;science journalism&quot; these days ([[History (TV channel)|The History Channel]]? The [[National Geographic Channel]]? Really?) is often abysmal, even from &quot;reliable&quot; scientific reporters. (Stephanie Pappas, who wrote the story on Ciudad Blanca for [[LiveScience]] that was picked up by the ''[[Huffington Post]]'', is well-intentioned but has admitted to me that she is simply writing too many things to do more thorough investigative research. She could have contacted me on the story, but neglected to do so before it was submitted. However, as a popular news source she is &quot;reliable&quot; enough for Wikipedia.) You say that Preston &quot;is a much better source than 95% of the available writings on the subject.&quot; What would those be? Do you consider Preston to be more reliable than Stewart? Have you consulted ''Jungleland'' yet? I will be reading more scientific literature by archaeologists. It will be interesting to see how what they say compares with what appears in &quot;reliable scientific reporting.&quot; [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 07:05, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
::::::::By the way, what did you identify as &quot;my own opinions&quot; that were added to the article? What are your criteria for distinguishing opinions from facts? How do you determine which facts are relevant and which are not? Isn't your own opinion at work in that? [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 07:05, 24 May 2013 (UTC)

I'm puzzled by some of the &quot;citation needed&quot; requests. If a statement contains hyperlinks to existing Wikipedia articles and those articles contain the necessary citations, is it necessary to also provide the citations in the parent article? [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 02:10, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
:Wikipedia is not a valid source, so yes citations are needed. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB#top|talk]]) 02:18, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
::Wait a minute. You're saying that the valid sources cited in existing Wikipedia articles that are hyperlinked from an article need to repeated again in the parent article? That makes no sense to me at all. What's the point of hyperlinking articles in Wikipedia if the relevant information in each needs to be repeated? I also don't understand your &quot;not in source&quot; comment about [[Theodore Morde]]. If someone is an archaeologist but the reference to that person in a source doesn't ''explicitly say'' that they're an archaeologist, then they can't be identified as an archaeologist (or a geographer, filmmaker, cartographer, etc.)? The documentation of Morde as a spy is provided in the article on [[Theodore Morde]]. Does that same source ''also'' need to be repeated in the [[La Ciudad Blanca]] article in order to identify him as such there? [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 04:37, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
:::It may not make sense to you, but that is Wikipedia policy.  Each article should stand alone.  A hyperlink, is to provide further information (or needed background) for interested parties, not citation for a fact. Our reader shouldn't be required to go searching for a citation (and almost certainly won't).  Sometimes uncontentious details can be uncited, but yes, claiming someone is spy is definitely something that needs cited. (It is probably also irrelevant, for the record.) --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB#top|talk]]) 04:50, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
::::I understand that each article should stand alone, but it should not be necessary to document well-known facts with citations. Requesting a citation to document that specific sites are actually in specific countries seems extreme to me, but I provided a citation nonetheless. (I also provided a citation for the OSS/spy reference.) By the way, I disagree with you about the espionage references being irrelevant. There is a long history of Americans using archaeology as a cover for espionage in Mexico and Central America. See this article, for example: [http://www.thenation.com/article/anthropologists-spies Anthropologists as Spies]. You'll see that all of the principals in this article (Spinden, Morley, Lothrop, and Mason) were not only contemporaries with Morde but also major contributors to archaeology relevant for the interpretation of the Ciudad Blanca legend. I'm not a conspiracy theorist, but in the current lingo what they were doing being referred today as [[false flag]] research. (See David Price's book ''[http://www.amazon.com/Weaponizing-Anthropology-Science-Militarized-Counterpunch/dp/1849350639 Weaponizing Anthropology: Social Science in the Service of the Militarized State]''.) There has been a long history of this in Mosquitia, including Sylvanus Morley's coastline surveillance for the [[Office of Naval Intelligence]]. If you don't see the connection between [[LiDAR]] and espionage/surveillance, then you've just not given much consideration yet to the technology. Mosquitia played a key role during the [[Nicaraguan Revolution]], when the Moskitos provided the Sandinistas with significant logistical support (counter to the infamous ''[[contras]]'' who were supplied by [[Oliver North]] of the [[Iran-Contra affair]]). Today, Mosquitia is a hotbed of drug production and trafficking, and LiDAR is another potential tool in the [[War on Drugs]] in the region. I don't think that Steve Elkins is working with the CIA or anything like that, but it's likely the agency is keeping track of what's going on with that project. (Of course, we'll have to wait until we have ''reliable sources'' before any of that can be mentioned in Wikipedia!) To get back to Morde, I don't think it was by chance that he went down to Honduras in 1940. That was the same year that archaeologist [[Samuel Kirkland Lothrop|Lothrop]] was reassigned to Peru to keep track of German [[U-boat]] movements and that [[John Alden Mason|Mason]] went to [[Sitio Conte]], Panama (near the [[Canal Zone]]) to excavate the gold artifacts that Lothrop was unable to recover. Of course, the events of [[attack on Pearl Harbor]] on December 7, 1941 changed many priorities and the not insignificant U.S. involvement in [[World War II]] may have affected--indirectly or not--Morde's ability to return to Honduras to &quot;explore&quot;. Note that there is a lot more history here than Douglas Preston has told. I haven't ready Christopher Stewart's ''Jungleland'' yet (have you?), so I don't know if he gets into any of that. At any rate, this is a long way of saying that I think Morde's background is actually relevant to the various legends of Ciudad Blanca (whose &quot;mystery&quot; may be more complex than imagined, and not necessarily because of the region's archaeology). I do appreciate that some of this may constitute original research, but there ''are'' published and relevant sources that establish relevant facts whose inclusion improves the quality of this article. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 06:53, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
:::::Obviously ''Discovery Channel'' has destroyed any reputation they may have had in the past, and has long ceased to be a reliable source.  I had also already determined that the ''Live Science'' article was not a great source.  Despite what you may think, I am actually capable of judging the quality of a source. I have not read ''Jungleland'' yet, but it is certainly my intention to do so.  Of course, it was written &quot;for profit&quot; (more so even than a news article), so by your definition it should be considered an unreliable source.  As I alluded to above, I certainly plan to extend the Morde info from additional sources.
:::::There is a difference between (&quot;may have) had ties to OSS&quot; and &quot;was a spy&quot;, but its a minor point not worth debating - the important thing was to cite the detail.  As to the other {{cn}}s - I only tagged entire PARAGRAPHS that were uncited.  It was not intended to say &quot;this last detail needs a cite&quot;, but rather &quot;this entire paragraph needs a cite.&quot;  As to what is an opinion, when you lead a sentence with &quot;it is important to note&quot; (for example), that is a clear indication you are arguing a point, not presenting &quot;just the facts&quot;. --13:48, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
::::::Note that you feel free to identify what ''you'' think are unreliable sources (the Discovery Channel and ''LiveScience'') but are unwilling to honor other opinions about unreliable sources and authors. This is a blatant insertion of your own bias and POV, which we have agreed is not a good thing. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 16:28, 13 June 2013 (UTC)  
::::::Among the sources that you have not yet updated are the references to information about Quetzalcoatl and Spanish explorers from the ''Frommer's'' travel guide on Honduras. This should ''not'' be considered a reliable source when it comes to issues of Pre-Columbian texts or the history of the Spanish Conquest. It's a ''travel guide'', for God's sake. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 17:40, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::This is a blatantly false attack on me and unworthy of a response.  As to the use of Frommer's, I have already replied to that above. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 19:07, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
It would be nice if you could discuss the issues about relevance of [[Lost World (genre)|Lost World]] fiction on the article's talk page ''before'' deleting those references. I think it is directly relevant to the theme of &quot;legendary&quot; cities and the mystique of the intrepid explorer. Without this stuff, the romance of Ciudad Blanca really makes no sense. R. Tripp Evans discusses this issue in ''Romancing the Maya,'' which really should be cited in this article. I hope you will restore the section about Morley's surveys of Mosquitia during World War I, since they represent some of the first work by an archaeologist in the region. For what it's worth, Morley's fascination with the Maya can be traced to his boyhood reading of fantasy writer [[H. Rider Haggard]]'s novel ''Heart of the World'' (1895), which is about an explorer discovering a &quot;lost city&quot; in Central America. The romantic seekers of Ciudad Blanca are following in these footsteps. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 00:53, 25 May 2013 (UTC)
:I reworded it a bit, but I didn't delete the material except for a sentence about WWI placed in the context of 1850.  I am skeptical of the relevance of the Lost World material, as it does not relate directly to Ciudada Blanca.  Unless reliable sources tie these themes to Ciudada Blanca, it is irresponsible for us to do so.  However, the information is definitely interesting.  I am happy to give it time to be properly integrated.  I will find a place for the WWI bit, per your request, as it does look relevant upon review. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB#top|talk]]) 01:18, 25 May 2013 (UTC)
:P.S. The romance of Ciudad Blanca in Honduran cultural would be better explained by developments in Honduras, not by what some Americans were interested in (although America's interest are also relevant since many of the adventurers/archaeologists were Americans that became fascinated by the story.) --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB#top|talk]]) 01:29, 25 May 2013 (UTC)
::I appreciate your willingness to include the relevant WWI material about Sylvanus Morley's coastal surveys of Mosquitia, which are definitely relevant. With respect to the Lost World material, I don't understand why it is necessary to have a specific tie to Ciudad Blanca when it is clear that discussions such as those of R. Tripp Evans in ''Romancing the Maya'' (2004) and others refer specifically to &quot;lost cities&quot; in Central America--which is precisely what Ciudad Blanca is claimed to be. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 16:45, 6 June 2013 (UTC)
:::Because if no one ties the too together but you, it is obviously original research on your part.  Just because it is &quot;true&quot; doesn't make it relevant to this article. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 18:56, 6 June 2013 (UTC)
::Can you please explain to me why you're unwilling to have this discussion on the article's own talk page, which is where it should appropriately appear? In fact, I request that you transclude this entire discussion from your own talk page to the article's talk page, where it can be more easily consulted and referenced by other readers and contributors. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 16:48, 6 June 2013 (UTC)
:::Actually, I'm doing this myself. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 16:49, 6 June 2013 (UTC)
:::Unwilling to discuss at talk (when I have extensively)? Get real it was you who posted on my talk and I replied there. Geez --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] [[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 19:09, 6 June 2013 (UTC)

=== Edit Wars ===
I would like to request the participation of other Wikipedia editors to review the changes that [[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]] is making to continually shift this article to reflect his personal POV. He continues to revert my edits in order to include biased and irrelevant information. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 22:48, 6 June 2013 (UTC)

:And I would like other editors to inform Hoops that his POV is not &quot;fact&quot; anymore than my supposed POV is.  The difference is I've provided sources for my edits and he hasn't for his, despite repeated requests to do so.  I would be ''extremely'' happy to include his material if he could back it by a source, but apparently he can't because the comparisons he wishes to draw are his own original research.  True, perhaps, but not appropriate for Wikipedia unless published by others. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 22:53, 6 June 2013 (UTC)
::I disagree with ThaddeusB and I can provide documentation of how I have repeatedly provided sources for my edits and have responded to ''every'' request that he has made to do so, only having him return and revert edits to the article to reflect his POV, which is biased in part because--although he provides sources--he continually sources ''the same'' popular article and includes a great deal of extraneous information from it. Extensive paraphrasing from a published article is not appropriate for Wikipedia, especially when the citation for that source has been provided. As a simple exercise, simply count all of the references to Douglas Preston's ''New Yorker'' article. These will immediately reveal ThaddeusB's extreme bias and flawed methodology. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 22:59, 6 June 2013 (UTC)
::The entire section currently title &quot;Under the LiDAR (UTL) project&quot; needs to be reviewed and revised to reflect only material that is relevant to this article. At present, it duplicates too much extraneous information from a single source in a style that is inappropriate to Wikipedia and that looks too much like promotion of a commercial venture (a documentary film) rather than evaluation of the legend of Ciudad Blanca. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 23:08, 6 June 2013 (UTC)
:::Of course you disagree, that is why it is an edit war. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 23:17, 6 June 2013 (UTC)
::::And, according to what you yourself have said, undocumented opinions have no place in Wikipedia articles. If it is a matter of opinion, and not documented by reliable sources, then according to you it doesn't belong in the article. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 01:54, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::'''Everything''' I have put in the article is back by a citation to a reliable source.  Most of what you have put in is not. If you don't like my source, provide a better one. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 02:42, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::Yes, most of it is cited to ''a'' source. Meaning ''one'' source, which also happens to be an ''opinionated'' source. As I've noted, it's a significant problem that you are relying so heavily on ''a single source''. I don't consider the ''New Yorker'' magazine article by Douglas Preston to be a reliable source, so while it's true that you are provided repeated citations ''to this source'', those are not citations to a reliable source. They are actually citations to a popular magazine article written by someone who is seeking to drum up popular interest in a book he is writing, who you are helping by providing free publicity on Wikipedia. As I have said, if you can identify what it is that I have added that you think requires a reliable source, I will provide it. As for providing a &quot;better one,&quot; how does one find a better unreliable source? (Just kidding.) The problem is that the magazine article that your are citing for &quot;facts&quot; is one that includes things such as direct quotations of dialogue, emotions, opinions, and other kinds of information that are not included in reliable, scientific sources. Do subjective, emotion-laden opinions trump scientific interpretations just because they've been quoted in a popular magazine? [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 03:02, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::Your guess as to the author's motives is not relevant.  It meets the definition of a reliabel source, but again if you think he is mistaken on some points please provide an alternate source. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 03:26, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::::I've read through the whole of this discussion. I think there are items each of you is probably more or less correct on. However, I think that Hoopes, in general, has pursued this with a greater focus on wiki policy and a lesser reliance on ad hominem attacks. I concur with Hoopes on pretty much every item that has come up here. Thaddeus, please refrain from continued personal attacks. If you cannot engage in the editing process without following wiki policy, perhaps you need to step away for a while and cool down. In addition, reliance on a single source is indefensible.[[Special:Contributions/204.65.34.238|204.65.34.238]] ([[User talk:204.65.34.238|talk]]) 13:44, 10 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::::LOL, get real.  Hoopes hasn't even attempted to address policy and has engaged in far more personal attacks than me.  You obviously did not read very much of the discussion based on your &quot;assessment&quot; of it. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 17:36, 10 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::::BTW, if you had actually read the whole discussion you would have known Hoopes and I largely worked out our differences and have agreed to move forward with positive editing, making your chiding completely unnecessary. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 19:39, 10 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::::::Remarks such as &quot;get real,&quot; &quot;you obviously did not read...,&quot; and &quot;if you had actually read...&quot; are potentially insulting and contribute further to the impression of ''[[ad hominem]]'' aggression. This article ''still'' relies much too heavily upon a single source (Preston's ''New Yorker'' article), as is clear from the citations. Although we have agreed to move forward with positive editing, that agreement included a reduction in the reliance on Preston's article. From what I can tell, none of the references to or quotations from that article have been removed. I think the added emphasis on the mythology is helpful, but it should be done without further reliance upon Preston as a source. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 15:33, 11 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::::::You are right - I should have ignored the highly unproductive comment entirely.  As to the rest, I find it ''extremely'' ironic that you complains about my supposed impatience when I deleted a few unsourced sentences after more than a week, but when I fail to rewrite the entire article in 2 days you conclude I haven't done anything.  Increasing the use of other sources ''does'' reduce to reliance on Preston implicitly.  And if you hadn't been so impatient the use of Preston would have continued to decrease naturally. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 03:08, 12 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::::::::The commenter noted, &quot;I concur with Hoopes on pretty much every item that has come up here&quot; and yet you assert that my comment was &quot;highly unproductive&quot; and therefore could be ignored. Hyperbole and exaggeration is not helpful. Nor is it helpful to attribute to me sentiments that I don't have. I didn't expect you to &quot;rewrite the entire article in 2 days&quot; nor did I assert that you haven't done anything. I really don't know why you think &quot;the use of Preston would have continued to decrease naturally.&quot; Changes in Wikipedia articles don't just happen on their own. You need to actively ''remove'' excessive citations to Preston's article in order to shift the article away from the biased POV that results from overreliance on this one source. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 16:35, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::::::::I didn't say ''your'' comment was highly unproductive, unless of course the IP was you, which is a possibility I suppose.  You did, in fact imply I did nothing to address the problem and by &quot;naturally&quot; I obviously meant as I kept working on the article.  --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 18:53, 13 June 2013 (UTC)

=== Preston &quot;El Dorado&quot; article in the ''New Yorker'' magazine ===
As is obvious from the citations, Preston's 2013 article has played a huge role in the current draft of this Wikipedia article. It has also been a major factor in perpetuating the legend of Ciudad Blanca, ''which is the main subject of this article.'' For this reason, it is important to specifically identify and acknowledge the Preston article as a contribution to the ''legend'' of Ciudad Blanca and not simply to cite it as one of many sources. Preston's article is likely to have had more readers than anything Morde wrote, so Preston joins Morde, Stewart, and others in the history of perpetuating the legend. ''Please'' discuss your rationale here before deleting specific mentions of Preston (of which there are currently only two in the article). [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 17:16, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
:That it has &quot;been a major factor in perpetuating the legend&quot; is an assumption on your part.  It is not a fact or anythign close to it.  The fact is that many RS covered the UTL story ''before'' Preston's article was even published, so if something perpetuated the legend it is the UTL press releases.  If his coverage is to be mentioned at all, it should be along side the 100 other RS that covered it, not in isolation, and certainly not as an introduction to events that happened a year or more before he wrote.  --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 19:01, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
::If that's the case, then why have you included ''over forty'' (now down from 50+) citations to Preston's piece in revising this Wikipedia article? Yes, the press covered Elkins due to press releases by UTL in both 2012 (before Preston's article was published) and in 2013, when additional UTL press releases were issued following the publication of Preston's article. The content of a Wikipedia article should be a result of its [[WP:N]], not based on the frequency of press releases or press coverage of a particular story. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 23:02, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
:::Your timeline is mistaken.  It was the team presenting their findings at a scientific conference that spawned the second round of press releases.  No doubt Preston purposely released his article at the same time, but it was the conference that spawned the coverage.  As to why I used Preston for the UTL material it is because he is the best source for this material.  His article is more comprehensive and he had direct access to the expedition.  Other stories are reliant largely on the PRs; his article is not.  Furthermore, in my own research on the subject I have noticed that he in fact has exhibited higher standards than other sources.  For example, he correctly states that Morde commit suicide while other RS's perpetrate the myth that he died in a car crash &quot;shortly&quot; after returning from Honduras.   Even so, I have steadily replaced his article with more direct sources as I improved the article.  or example, he used to be the primary source for the Morde section and is no longer so.  That is because the original sources should be considered more reliable for such information (even though I have found no errors in his telling of the Morde story).  So you so, I have in fact carefully picked the source.  You, however, assert it is wrong and biased and yet repeatedly refuse to point out specific instances of error. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 23:26, 13 June 2013 (UTC)

== POV Discussion ==

It is my opinion that the quality of this article has been seriously compromised with respect to point-of-view (POV) due to overreliance on a single source, Douglas Preston's article &quot;The El Dorado Machine&quot; in the ''New Yorker'' magazine, especially by editor [[User:ThaddeusB]]. At the time I am writing this, it is cited a total of '''56''' times, ''far'' more often than any other source in the article and, in my opinion, and unacceptably high number of times for a Wikipedia article that should rely upon multiple sources of information in the interest of avoiding bias. In addition, the content of Preston's article has been extensively paraphrased and excerpted, with personal vignettes (many highlighting a specific narrative of &quot;discovery&quot;) and multiple direct quotations, many of which are not statements of fact relevant to the content of the article but emotional responses included to provide appealing &quot;color&quot; and &quot;story&quot; to the original article. The overall effect is to give the Wikipedia article a sensationalized quality of popular journalism that I think is unsuitable for an encyclopedia article. Furthermore, because of errors and misinterpretations in the article by Preston, these are repeated as &quot;facts&quot; in the Wikipedia article and their veracity is supported by citations back to this problematic and unreliable source. I think that the bias that this introduces reflects a heavy POV on the part of [[User:ThaddeusB]], who has not only been unwilling to reduce content that relies upon this one, biased source by Preston but who has also reverted or deleted content intended to provide more balance. That is, a heavy POV has been pervasive not only in the content but in the repeated editing of the article. When I have complained about this, [[User:ThaddeusB]] has claimed that I am attempting to inject my own POV into the article and has deleted my contributions, thereby strengthening his own. I would like for [[User:ThaddeusB]] to respond to this and then to have an objective third party render an opinion with suggestions about how the Wikipedia article can be improved to reduce individual POV. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 04:17, 7 June 2013 (UTC)

:So is this a &quot;no thanks&quot; to my request to start over between us and have a little time to reduce the reliance on Preston? --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 04:26, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
::No, this was written before I read that. I posted this in response to ''your'' suggestion that we have a discussion on the talk page about conflicting charges of POV. Are you going to make me regret having spent time on this, too? [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 04:29, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
:::Fair enough.  I think at this time we are starting to move forward on our own.  If you can point out specific &quot;errors and misinterpretations in the article by Preston&quot;, such as you did in [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=La_Ciudad_Blanca&amp;diff=558701059&amp;oldid=558700857 regards to &quot;rare&quot; permits], that would be very helpful.  Certainly I think that would be more beneficial than more arguments over our own POVs.  For my part, I will work to reduce reliance on Preston over the weekend with special attention to anything specific you point out.  If we got to a sticking point on a specific issue, a third opinion would then be very useful, but I think right now we aren't even exactly sure where we disagree other than the very general &quot;too much Preston&quot; point. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 04:40, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
::::I've made a few changes and may yet make a few more. Among the issues I've had with your citation of Preston are presenting irrelevant facts and quotations that may have made his ''New Yorker'' article appealing but which are inappropriate for an encyclopedia entry. If, as you've insisted, this article is about the ''legend'', then that must be the guide for what to include or not. There are many details about personal experiences, emotions, or interpretations that may make for an interesting story but which are are completely inappropriate in a Wikipedia article. Please don't forget that Preston is a commercial author who specializes in telling sensational stories. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 22:10, 11 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::I agree (expect the &quot;sensational stories&quot; part) and as previously discussed the content will be moved to a place where it is relevant - an article about UTL. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 03:10, 12 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::If you mean &quot;except&quot; the sensational stories part, you really need to review the publication record of [[Douglas Preston]]. I think seventeen popular techno-thriller and horror novels as well as several crime-story nonfiction books count as &quot;sensational stories.&quot; A separate article about UTL would be appropriate so long as it does not rely heavily upon either a limited number of sources or sources intended to promote that business. That would be misuse of Wikipedia. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 16:40, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
Your alteration and insertion of statements that reflect your personal POV is still a problem. For example, you changed one of my changes to read, &quot;Popular accounts of the legend often claim the city contained vast quantities of gold.  Versions told by indigenous people of Honduras, however, stress that it is a forbidden city with no mention of supposed wealth.&quot; However, you provide no sources for these statements. What represents a &quot;popular account&quot; is a matter of opinion (saying &quot;some accounts&quot; is both correct and neutral). Claims about &quot;versions told by indigenous people&quot; and specifics such as that they &quot;stress that it is a forbidden city&quot; or that there is &quot;no mention of supposed wealth&quot; ''must'' be supported by reliable sources or they are inappropriate and should not be included. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 16:51, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
:Such statement ''are'' supported by reliable sources in the '''body of the article'''.  They do not reflect my POV at all - that is a false assumption on your part. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 18:55, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
::No fair. You are claiming that your statements can be supported by &quot;reliable sources in the body of the article&quot; while insisting that I provide specific sources for other statements that meet the same criteria. Whether they reflect your POV or not is a matter of opinion on which we apparently disagree. You claim sources are reliable when I claim they are not. I have asked other editors to look at this discussion and attempt to mediate our edit war. Since you have disregarded my comments, have not sought my opinion, and continue to revert my edits, it seems that is the only way these issues will be resolved. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 20:41, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
:::They are sourced in the body though, which is completely different than not being sourced at all.  My POV is a matter of fact, not opinion and you are not entitled continually assert what my POV is especially after I have repeatedly told you that you are wrong. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 23:19, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
In the &quot;Fisher&quot; section above, you wrote, &quot;I won't promise not to delete weasel violations, but otherwise sure I won't delete anything.&quot; However, after I had spent a substantial amount of time working on revisions that improved the article, ''you deleted them''. You have asked me to take your statements on good faith but you have not shown good faith yourself. We are at an impasse that requires external mediation. I'm sorry it's come to that, but it has. Wikipedia is a collaborative venture and it is not right for you to exercise such a heavy hand in editing, especially with such heavy emphasis on a single source article from a popular magazine. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 20:45, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
:This is a false statement.  I left the majority of changes untouched and edited a few things.  If you thought I meant I would never edit a single sentence you wrote in any way, then you are were under the wrong impression. I meant I wouldn't wholesale delete material, not that I wouldn't change anything. If anyone is trying to emphasize a heavy hand it is you. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 23:05, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
::If I've had a &quot;heavy hand,&quot; it's to reduce the effects of ''your'' heavy hand. This is getting ridiculous. Have you done anything to request the assistance of other editors on this article? I have. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 23:27, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
:::A changed literally 3 lines of your most recent edits - not even to change the content, just the flow - and left every other word in tact and you still reverted.  If '''that'' isn't heavy handed then I don't know what is.  And no, I thought we were going to work things out so I didn't go leaving biased messages saying I needed help against a POV editor everywhere I could think of.  I guess it was a mistake on my part to assume good faith when you agreed to work things out. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 23:36, 13 June 2013 (UTC)

== Citation style ==

If you don't understand why somethign is cited, don't just change it.  Wikipedia consensus is that direct quotes require direct citations (at the end of the sentence), while regular material can use the same cite to support multiple lines.  --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 03:16, 12 June 2013 (UTC)
:''If you don't understand why something has been changed, don't just revert the change.'' When all of the material in a paragraph comes from a single source, the citation can come at the end of that paragraph. It does not need to come at the end of each sentence in the paragraph except when there are direct quotations. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 16:44, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
::Why did you just repeat exactly what I wrote?  --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 18:57, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
:::Because you had left sections of the article where all of the material in a paragraph came from the same source and there were citations after each sentence even when there was no direct quotation. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 20:36, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
::::Actually I didn't.  There have been far more than 2 people to edit this article. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 23:02, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
::::Okay, then, I repeated it because ''someone'' had left extraneous citations and I thought it was you. I also repeated what you had written because I wanted to make sure you knew that it applied to yourself as well as to me (or others). [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 23:07, 13 June 2013 (UTC)

== Points of agreement dispute ==

To facilitate further discussion, I thought it would be helpful to outline specific points of dispute and agreement --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 00:30, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:Thanks for adding this. I think that it is helpful and hope it will help us cut our way through a tropical jungle of debate to find the &quot;real&quot; Ciudad Blanca in all of this. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 02:09, 14 June 2013 (UTC)

===Agreement===
*UTL material was (is?) too extensive.  Section has been edited down and a split into a separate article is planned, which should further reduce its scope. 
:I think it is still too extensive. If the article is about the &quot;legend&quot; of Ciudad Blanca (if there actually ''is'' one...) then the actual archaeology of eastern Honduras merits a separate article. I am not certain that the UTL project merits its own article since I think there is a significant issue of [[Wikipedia:Notability]] that must be resolved first. There are not many reliable sources on the project, which is still in early stages, so there's a good chance it is not notable. That said, I think there ''is'' justification for: 1) creating a new article on the archaeology of [[La Mosquitia]] (or adding an archaeology section to that article), or 2) adding an archaeology section to the still very short article on [[Gracias a Dios Department]] in Honduras. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 02:09, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::There are over 800 news stories on UTL which count as reliable sources in Wikipedia's eyes. Please do write about the archeology on the region in those articles, as I have encouraged you to do previously. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 02:13, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::The number of news articles is a result of proactive press activity by UTL. Most are redundant and repeat or even misquote and misrepresent information from press releases and interviews. Many of those articles present information that has been identified as ''incorrect'', such as the claim that UTL project was searching for a &quot;lost city of gold&quot; or any gold whatsoever. Those sources have demonstrated that they are not reliable. In fact, you yourself have said that you think ''LiveScience'' is not a reliable source. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 03:48, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::::Hoopes' assessment of RS quality is not a notability criteria.  I didn't say LiveScience was unreliable, I said it was less reliabel than Preston. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 04:38, 14 June 2013 (UTC)

*More sources are needed.  This takes time, obviously

===Disagreement===
'''Should the UTL section start by saying &quot;For the May 6, 2013 issue, in an article whose title alluded to the search for [[El Dorado]], author [[Douglas Preston]] published a popular account in ''[[The New Yorker]]'' magazine about documentary film maker Steve Elkins' quest for Ciudad Blanca&quot; or should it start with the facts and maybe mention Preston's article along with other media coverage?'''
*Start with mention: Shows (one of) the sources of the text
:I think it should remain because, unlike the many small news articles based on abbreviated press releases, the Preston article stands out as a widely read and therefore significant contribution to the legend. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 02:08, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::Who says it is widely read?  That is OR. All we know or sure is that I read it, judged it a good source, and used it extensively.  I am just one person though (and didn't even learn about the story from it).  Maybe few people read it. Below you say he is not a reliable source, yet you want to give him special weight.  Doesn't make any sense to me. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 02:21, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::But you have given &quot;special weight&quot; to Theodore Morde, even though you yourself have agreed he is unreliable. My preference is to mention Preston as contributor to the legend, in which case the issue of his reliability is irrelevant. It's a legend. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 03:51, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::::Secondary sources have given special weight to Morde (by discussing him extensively).  They have not done so for Preston. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 04:36, 14 June 2013 (UTC)

*Don't: Usual disclosure (ref is there for reader to click on).  Gives undue emphasis/false impression that one writer's story played a huge role in the development of the myth.  Borders on original research by implying this source perpetrated the myth.

'''Is Preston's article a reliable source?'''
*Pro: Had direct access to the UTL team.  Many known facts check out even where other sources on UTL get in wrong.
::On the reliability of ''The New Yorker'': [http://www.cjr.org/critical_eye/fact-checking_at_the_new_yorker.php?page=all].  It short, they employ ''extensive'' fact checking. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 04:36, 14 June 2013 (UTC)

*Con: Writes for the popular press.  Uses a story-telling style.
:Also, Preston is not an archaeologist and has little relevant expertise on LiDAR, eastern Honduras, or the evaluation of the kinds of claims that are common in [[pseudoarchaeology]]. I could be mistaken about this, but I think I read that he is writing a longer, commercial book about Ciudad Blanca similar to his other popular &quot;mystery&quot; nonfiction. He has a vested interest in perpetuating the &quot;legend&quot; and romantic perceptions of it, so should not be considered an unbiased source. His claims must be balanced by statements from authoritative, reliable sources. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 02:07, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::Preston writes regularly on archeology.  If any reporter is capable of being reliable on any topic, it is one who writes regularly on that subject.  I have seen no mention of this book except from you.  It is your assumption that he has a vested interest, not a fact. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 02:21, 14 June 2013 (UTC)  

'''Should the focus of the article be the history of the Ciudad Blanca legend or actual archeology done in the region (with no direct ties to the myth)?'''
*Myth: Reliable sources that mention the term &quot;Ciudad Blanca&quot; generally are about the myth itself with maybe an occasional mention of some archeology.
:Please see the section I've added to this talk page about whether a [[legend]] of Ciudad Blanca actually exists. What is there to &quot;the myth itself&quot;? Is there a clear [[narrative]]? If not, it seems to be a disjoint collection of vague rumors and nothing more. At least, not until it's made more commercial in the 1990s. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 02:06, 14 June 2013 (UTC)

*Archeology: At least we'd know everything is factual.

'''Which lead is a better reflection of the body of the article?'''
*&quot;Some accounts claim that it contained vast quantities of gold. Due to the many variants of the story as well as the lack of correspondence with current knowledge of the region, most professional archaeologists doubt it refers to an actual city of the Pre-Columbian era.&quot;
:Unless there is clear documentation of what those &quot;some accounts&quot; are, this remains vague and unsubstantiated. Wikipedia articles should not be used to perpetuate rumors, especially ones that can bring harm to archaeological sites and indigenous people. Every effort should be made to avoid the use of Wikipedia to spread unfounded and potentially harmful rumors about the existence of &quot;vast quantities of gold&quot; for the taking that have no basis whatsoever in reality. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 02:06, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::The lead is a summary of the body.  The various accounts (both native and popular) are mentioned and sourced in the body of the article.  The question is not whether the statement is accurate, but whether it reflects the body of the article.  If there are disputes about the accuracy of the body of the article, that is a separate question. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 02:21, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::The various accounts are ''not'' mentioned nor adequately sourced in the body of the article, which contributes to a flimsy &quot;house of cards&quot; built on unfounded and poorly sourced assertions. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 03:54, 14 June 2013 (UTC)

*&quot;Popular accounts of the legend often claim the city contained vast quantities of gold. Versions told by indigenous people of Honduras, however, stress that it is a forbidden city with no mention of supposed wealth. Due to the many variants of the story as well as the lack of correspondence with current knowledge of the region, most professional archaeologists doubt it refers to an actual city of the [[Pre-Columbian era]].&quot;
:What is the clear documentation for these &quot;popular accounts&quot; that goes beyond hints, hearsay, and rumors? Whose &quot;accounts&quot; are they? How is it determined that they are actually &quot;popular&quot;? [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 02:05, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:What are the sources for the &quot;versions told by indigenous people of Honduras&quot;? Have they ''actually'' been told by indigenous people? What are the sources for that? By ''which'' indigenous people? Have they actually referred to ''Ciudad Blanca'' (as distinct from what Morde called the &quot;City of the Monkey God&quot;) a &quot;forbidden city,&quot; or is this an invention by romantic, wishful, or potentially exploitative non-indigenous people? Because of the risks of genuine harm that can result from the spreading of unfounded rumors about indigenous people, it is ''essential'' that such claims provide a clear '''context''' and well-documented, reliable '''sources'''. Note that the problem of the conflation of Ciudad Blanca with the City of the Monkey God is a relevant issue. This article as written makes the assumption that they are one and the same, an assumption promoted only recently by authors Stewart and Preston. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]])
::The lead is a summary of the body.  The various accounts (both native and popular) are mentioned and sourced in the body of the article.  The question is not whether the statement is accurate, but whether it reflects the body of the article.  If there are disputes about the accuracy of the body of the article, that is a separate question. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 02:21, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::Fine, but if there are problems in the body, there are problems in the lead. There are problems in the body and therefore the lead. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 03:41, 14 June 2013 (UTC)

== Is there really a &quot;legend of ''La Ciudad Blanca''&quot;? ==
So far, there really doesn't seem to be much evidence for an actual [[legend]] of Ciudad Blanca, defined in that Wikipedia article as &quot;a narrative of human actions that are perceived both by teller and listeners to take place within human history and to possess certain qualities that give the tale verisimilitude.&quot; What has been presented, documented, and inadequately sourced in the article so far are mostly poorly documented comments here and there in the absence of any actual [[narrative]]. At least, not until about the 1990s, when narratives are spun by commercial writers and journalists. The association between Ciudad Blanca and Theodore Morde's apparently imaginary &quot;City of the Monkey God&quot; seems to be purely circumstantial until a connection is made between the two by recent authors such as Christopher Stewart and Douglas Preston. Is there any older source that makes that connection? Can a stronger argument be made for the existence of an ''actual narrative'' (i.e. an actual ''legend'') about Ciudad Blanca rather than a series of unconnected bits and pieces of unfounded claims and rumors across the historical record? If not, the premise that there is a &quot;legend&quot; before recent books, movies, and planned documentary films seems highly tenuous. IMHO, there are little more than ''rumors'' of Ciudad Blanca, not an actual legend. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 01:24, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:Are you suggesting that no article should exist? --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 01:47, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::No, I haven't yet come to that conclusion. However, an article based on the false premise that a legend exists when it actually doesn't has some significant problems. If you are asserting that a legend of Ciudad Blanca ''does'' exist, then you must meet the burden of proof. How would you propose to do that? [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 02:13, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::If there is no legend, there can be no article.  However, I find this claim that there is no legend to be bizarre.  I agree the story is highly variant\poorly defined (just like El Dorado for example).  That is why the article lists the various accounts and tries not to draw the sort of conclusions people sometimes do (for example it says origin is unclear instead of it originated with Cortes), but instead just present the accounts.  However, the fact there is not a single coherent story doesn't mean there is no legend.  If there is no legend of La Ciudad Blanca, then there is no legend of El Dorado or Atlantis either - all three have many versions, minimal (or no) basis in reality, and unclear histories.  --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 02:27, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::::I disagree that it is &quot;just like [[El Dorado]]&quot;. If you look at that article or research the legend of El Dorado, you'll find that it is ''far'' more substantial than anything attributed to Ciudad Blanca. It is not enough for the article to list the various &quot;accounts&quot; (which, according to the documentation, are extremely brief and telegraphic and do not rise to the level of [[narrative]]). ''Yes, the fact that there is not a single coherent story means there is no legend.'' There actually ''is'' a legend of [[Atlantis]], which is well-documented and sourced in that Wikipedia article. The same goes for [[El Dorado]]. I don't think you've yet met anything close to the burden of proof for the &quot;legend&quot; of Ciudad Blanca, which by comparison to those two examples hardly exists at all. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 02:35, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::::Throughout this discussion, you've insisted on the importance of ''sources'' and I've emphasized the issue of ''reliability'' of sources (for which [[WP:RS]] is relevant). What is the [[legend]] of Ciudad Blanca and ''what are the reliable sources'' for the legend of Ciudad Blanca? That is, other than the recent publications by Stewart and Preston? If there is actually ''no'' legend of Ciudad Blanca, then the premise and the header of this article will have to be changed. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 02:45, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::As Begley says, there are many versions of the legend.  (There are also many versions of Atlantis and El Dorado.) Having multiple versions doesn't mean it doesn't exist (as a legend). --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 03:13, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::Okay if there are many versions of the legend, then explain what they are and ''provide sources''. Yes, there are many versions of the legends of Atlantis and El Dorado. I'm skeptical that there is even ''one'' version of the legend of Ciudad Blanca. If it exists, summarize it and provide a reliable source. The burden of proof is on you. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 03:39, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::I'll take Chris Begley's interpretation over your own: &quot;The pervasive '''legend''' of the Ciudad Blanca or White City has captured the public's imagination in Honduras and around the world.&quot;  &quot;Local Indian groups have different versions of the lost city legend.&quot; etc.  Like Begley, the vast majority of sources call it a legend.  The burden of proof that it isn't a legend is on you, as the sources support the use of the word legend. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 03:52, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::::Okay, what is Begley's account of the legend? What does he say is the legend itself? Claims that there is a legend are not the same as documentation of the legend itself. ''What is the legend?'' The article does not say. I'm not saying that the sources don't claim there is a legend. They clearly do. However, that is different from whether there actually ''is'' a legend. '''What is it?''' There are legends of a legend, but the legend is a myth. It is an illusion, and this article provides no substantial information to the contrary. The most accurate and correct statement is to note that ''some'' sources ''claim'' there is a legend and then cite them. That is different from stating that there is actually a legend or providing citations for the legend itself, which has not been done. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 04:00, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
Note that this article was first created in June 2012, after the initial press releases by Elkins' team about the LiDAR results, in which references to Ciudad Blanca were revived (but without any significant elaboration of a &quot;legend&quot;). This was also around the same time as Rosemary Joyce's blog post that Ciudad Blanca was a &quot;myth&quot;.&lt;ref&gt;{{Citation | contribution = Good science, big hype, bad archaeology | title = The Berkeley Blog | date = June 7, 2012 | url = http://blogs.berkeley.edu/2012/06/07/good-science-big-hype-bad-archaeology/}}.&lt;/ref&gt; I think it's worth considering following Joyce's lead and referring to Ciudad Blanca as a myth rather than a &quot;legend.&quot; Just because certain sources refer to a legend doesn't mean that a legend actually exists. I think the legend is a myth. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 02:54, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:Uh legend and myth are synonyms.  If you wanted to change word &quot;myth&quot; you should have just said so from the beginning...  To which I would respond that reliable sources almost universally use the term &quot;legend&quot; and as you have previously pointed out we should stick to the term sources use most. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 03:13, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::Legend and myth are synonyms only in ''some'' but not ''all'' senses of the word &quot;myth&quot;. I was not saying the legend was a myth in the sense of a narrative. You misunderstood. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 03:19, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
== Interpretive Bias ==
The term &quot;city&quot; is highly problematic with respect to interpretations of archaeological features in eastern Honduras and should not be used except in direct quotations or citations of those. Archaeological definitions of &quot;city&quot; vary, with most archaeologists wary of how this term, like the term &quot;civilization,&quot; can have different connotations in general and academic contexts. Most archaeologists accept some modification of the definition provided by [[V. Gordon Childe]] in his 1950 article &quot;[[urban revolution|The Urban Revolution]]&quot;, in which he outlined ten criteria with which to define urbanism. ''None'' of these criteria have yet been met by the available data associated with the search for Ciudad Blanca, making it difficult to consider this hypothetical settlement (or any others in eastern Honduras) to be a &quot;city.&quot; That said, the term has been erroneously applied to other legendary or poorly documented settlements in the past. An example of this would be [[Ciudad Perdida]] (Spanish for &quot;Lost City&quot;), an archaeological site in northern Colombia that few archaeologists would identify as a city. Use of the term &quot;city&quot; to describe poorly documented archaeological settlements in Central America should be avoided. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 19:05, 4 June 2013 (UTC)

At present, the section of this article entitled &quot;Under the LiDAR (UTL) project&quot; gives much more detailed discussion of this particular project than other previous research and exploration in the region, including that described by journalist Christopher Stewart in his recent book ''Jungleland'' (2012). This includes paraphrase and direct quotations from a recent article by journalist Douglas Preston in the ''New Yorker'', shifting the emphasis of this article away from an objective documentation into subjective journalism. Given the long history of speculation about Ciudad Blanca, the addition of more information about previous exploration and research associated with the legend would be especially helpful. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 17:31, 6 June 2013 (UTC)

:The article is a work in progress, but I have got news for you: ''Jungleland'' was written &quot;for profit&quot; by a &quot;sensationalist journalist&quot; as you would say, which means he is &quot;highly biased&quot; and a &quot;poor source&quot; by your standards, so I don't know why you are calling for more ''Jungleland''.  Indeed, he goes to great length to improve the credibility of Moore, whom you also hate.  At some point you are going to have to come to the realization that this is not an article about archaeology, but rather one about the history &quot;people's fantasies&quot;, as you put, about a mythical city.  Real, credible archaeologist generally don't engage in such fantasy so this article is not about them. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 19:27, 6 June 2013 (UTC)
::The reason why I think it would be appropriate to include more references to ''Jungleland'' is to counteract the [[bias]] that you have inserted into this article with heavy paraphrasing and quotations from Douglas Preston's article in the ''New Yorker''. That is the nature of the bias that you are inserting! I don't &quot;hate&quot; Morde. I just think he's an unreliable source. If this article is actually about the ''legend'', as you say it is, then additional and less biased information about the ''legend'' is what needs to be included. If this article is in fact about people's fantasies, then more of those fantasies (and less about LiDAR) need to be included. If this article is ''actually'' about archaeological fantasies, then it should contain MORE references to the [[Lost World (genre)|Lost World]] literature and [[pseudoarchaeology]].  If this article is not about archaeology, then why does it include so much information about Elkins' project? Shouldn't that be a separate article? It seems to me that you are the one who is being not only biased but inconsistent. If the article is actually about a legend and fantasy, then it should contain even ''less'' information about scientific research. If it is about scientific evaluation of the legend, however, then it should contain ''more'' and more balanced information about scientific research. Which should it be? [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 21:37, 6 June 2013 (UTC)

:::It should say whatever sources say.  And in case you noticed, real archaeology has very little to say about it.  Once again, please absolutely 100% add any and all information that is about Ciudad Blanca that you can support with a citation to the article.  Please do no insert your theories about Lost World literature and such influencing it unless you can find a source to support it.  Scientific research, that refers to the legend good. Scientific research about Honduras that doesn't refer to it, not relevant.  Material from ''Jungleland'', fine. Unsourced theories about its connection to American writings (when it was probably influenced mostly by Honduran culture not American), bad.  Adding [[WP:weasel|weasel]] phrases like 'many think its pseudo-archaeology' with no source whatsoever, very bad.
::::You are mistaken. &quot;Real archaeology&quot; has actually had quite a bit to say about it. I'm not clear about what you mean by &quot;its connection to American writings.&quot; If you had read R. Tripp Evans' book ''Romancing the Maya'' (a source that I have cited), you would know that Honduras was considered to be part of an &quot;American&quot; domain up until the early 20th century. He argues that, until the Mexican Revolution of 1911, most Americans took it for granted that Honduras and its ruins would eventually be part of the United States. In fact, the nation of Honduras did not become an independent republic from Spain until 1838. That's actually ''why'' John Lloyd Stephens was sent there on a diplomatic mission. I don't know where you get the idea that &quot;it was probably influenced mostly by Honduran culture.&quot; That's clearly an opinion. Do you have a source for it? As for [[pseudoarchaeology]], your strict citation requirements seem to indicate that someone must have used the actual term &quot;pseudoarchaeology&quot; for it to apply. Are those your standards for other words and phrases, too? If so, we can go through them one-by-one. If not, read the definition of that term. If it looks like a duck and walks like a duck, it's a duck (although, by your standards, it will need a source before it can actually be called a duck in Wikipedia). I don't think identifying a duck as a duck is &quot;very bad&quot; at all. You are splitting hairs. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 02:03, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::If &quot;real archaeology&quot; has lot to say about the legend, then you shouldn't have any problem finding sources.  Just because archeology occurred in Honduras doesn't mean it has any connection to the legend unless someone says it does.  Whatever Americans might have thought about their &quot;destiny&quot; people actually living in Honduras most certainly did not think of themselevs as Americans nor did they read English language fantasy literature.  Yes &quot;it was probably influenced mostly by Honduran culture&quot; is an uncited opinion, that is why it is not in the article.  &quot;It was influenced by Lost World literature&quot; is also an uncited opinion which is why it also should not be in the article. And yes writing &quot;many people call Ciudada Blanca pseudo-archaeology&quot; is a classic violation of [[WP:weasel]].  If it is true, you shouldn't have any problem finding at least one person who has said this.  --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 03:13, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
:::If you want to split out Elkins, we can definitely consider that.  However, the only reason it has more info at current is because other sections are unfinished. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 23:09, 6 June 2013 (UTC)
::::The more I think about this, the more I think that the only solution is to create two separate Wikipedia articles, one for Ciudad Blanca ''the legend'' and one for &quot;Ciudad Blanca&quot; as a scientific entity under investigation (though it can't be consider an archaeological site or even sites because no one has yet been able to identify it as such). I haven't researched how Wikipedia deals with other similar quandaries. For example, the Mormons have stories about [[Cumorah]], a hill mentioned in the [[Book of Mormon]] that some consider to be a product of imagination and others consider to be an actual archaeological locality. At present, that's dealt with in a small sections of the present article, one of which is titled &quot;Cerro El Vigia&quot; (for a specific location in Mexico) and another called &quot;Mainstream LDS archaeological view&quot; that provides some other general information about Mormon interpretations. However, those small sections hardly do justice to the extensive Mormon archaeology that has been dedicated to identifying Cumorah, much less other &quot;legendary&quot; locations mentioned in the ''Book of Mormon.'' In theory, the Cumorah and Ciudad Blanca entries that deal with legendary places should be parallel to one another. Are there cases that you know about where there are separate Wikipedia articles for a something mentioned in legend or folklore vs. something identified scientifically? Another possible parallel might be the entries for [[Troy]], [[Hisarlik]], and [[Troy VII]], which deal with both the legendary place described by Homer and the archaeological site of [[Hisarlik]], where, according to the current article on Troy, &quot;[[Troy VII]] has been identified with the Hittite Wilusa, the probable origin of the Greek Ἴλιον, and is generally (but not conclusively) identified with Homeric Troy.&quot; Of course, nothing even close to that level of identification has yet happened with Ciudad Blanca. My concern is that your own [[bias]], reflecting that of Douglas Preston, implies that Ciudad Blanca is an actual place that can be located archaeologically when in fact no professional archaeologists believe that to be true. I am also concerned that your overemphasis on Preston's article and Elkins' project--which you are attempting to justify by saying that the article is still a work in progress--is actually a thinly veiled promotion of Preston's forthcoming book and Elkins' forthcoming film over the caveats, cautions, skepticism, and informed opinions of well-informed professional archaeologists. Why does their work merit so much emphasis in this article, which according to you is about the ''legend'', not the archaeology of the region on which they've focused. It seems to me that separate articles are warranted, one for the legend of Ciudad Blanca and one for the archaeology of the Gracias a Dios region of eastern Honduras (including the recent [[remote sensing]] research). They are and should remain two separate issues. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 02:26, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::I am not aware of any splits like you refer to, but it is possible they exist.  I'm not sure what the &quot;archeology&quot; article woudl contain though, as there isn't really any archaeology on this except for a few people who made sensational claims tying their sites to it.  The first line of the article says &quot;legendary&quot; the second &quot;allegedly&quot; the third is &quot;Due to the vagaries of the story and the lack of correspondence with current knowledge of the region, most professional archaeologists doubt it refers to a real historical city of the Pre-Columbian era.&quot;  Similar qualifications appear in every section of the article.  I have no clue where you get the idea that someone could read this article and think the city is real, but I have a bit more faith in the intelligence of our readers than that.  Perhaps you would prefer the article be replaced with the text &quot;La Ciudad Blanca is a legendary city of Honduras.  No one with a clue believes it ever existed.  For factual information on the region it supposedly resides in see [[Isthmo-Colombian Area]].&quot; --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 03:01, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
::::By the way, I don't believe you when you say &quot;the only reason it has more info at current is because other sections are unfinished.&quot; I think the main reason it has more info is because you were entranced by the romance of Preston's article so much that you were inspired to paraphrase it in a totally subjective fashion--complete with quotations about stirring emotions that you found relevant--in this Wikipedia article. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 02:31, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::This is the last time I will say this.  I am not &quot;entranced by the romance of Preston's article&quot;.  You are seriously violating [[WP:AGF|assume good faith]], a pillar of Wikipedia, by repeating this false accusation over and over again.  If you do it again, I will have no choice but to report your inappropriate behavior. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 03:01, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
In order to diminish interpretive bias, I think it's important that not only the ''citations'' but the ''content'' of the article mention the contribution of author [[Douglas Preston]] to ongoing discussion of the legend. Note that he has no particular credentials in archaeology or anthropology but rather specializes in adventure and thriller fiction and sensational, crime-oriented nonfiction. His popular article in ''[[The New Yorker]]'' should be handled as a contribution to the legend, not as an unbiased, &quot;reliable&quot; news source. Just as Steve Elkins is seeking to feature the legend of Ciudad Blanca and its investigation in a film, Preston is also using (and contributing to) the legend in his own work. Since the article is about ''the legend'' (and ''not'' the archaeology), this should be made clear in a direct, accurate, and unbiased fashion. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 16:36, 11 June 2013 (UTC)
:Citing the name of the reporter over and over again would make the article unreadable and also be way outside of normal practice.  The merer fact that ''you'' think he is not a reliable source does not make it true. By your standards, reporters could never be reliable for ''anything'' since there expertise is in gathering information and writing, not in the field they report on. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 03:04, 12 June 2013 (UTC)
::No, there is no need to cite his name over and over again (despite the fact that you feel compelled to cite his one ''article'' over and over and over again), but it is essential to mention him specifically as someone who is perpetuating the legend. It is also important to identify when interpretations and opinions are his own. (A reporter is not an authority.) No, the fact that I don't think he is a reliable source does not make it true, but neither does your opinion that he ''is'' a reliable source. You are wrong about my standards. I don't think that reporters can never be reliable for ''anything,'' but I do think that popular magazine, newspaper, and wire reports can be unreliable. The remarks, opinions, spin, or bias of reporters and writers without topical expertise should be given precedence over scientific literature by experts in the field. You don't have to rely upon ''my'' standards for this. Rely upon those of Wikipedia. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 16:21, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
:::&quot;Can be&quot; and &quot;are&quot; are two completely different things.  You have been repeatedly challenged to point out specific errors to demonstrate unreliability and have instead kept insisting Preston is unreliable because you say it is.  That is not helpful. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 19:03, 13 June 2013 (UTC)

I am the one quoted as saying that at least two of the settlements identified in the UTL data can be thought of as cities in an anthropological sense.  I said this to Doug Preston and the rest of the UTL team, this is quoted in the original New Yorker article, and I stand by that statement. Debate about what constitutes a city, urbanism as a process, urban organization, etc.  - though fascinating - is probably beyond the scope of a Wikipedia entry.  [[User:Tariacuri|Tariacuri]] ([[User talk:Tariacuri|talk]]) 23:11, 15 June 2013 (UTC)
== Citation Requirements ==
I'm unclear on what is being requested in the way of a citation for the following:

&quot;There are several pre-Hispanic sites with significant architectural structures in this area, among them Guayabo de Turrialba and Las Mercedes in Costa Rica and Ciudad Perdida and Pueblito (in Tayrona National Natural Park) in Colombia.[citation needed]&quot;

The existing, hyperlinked Wikipedia articles in this passage and the citations provided within them make it clear that these sites have significant architectural structures and are located in the cultural-geographic unit known as [[Isthmo-Colombian Area]], which includes both Costa Rica and Colombia as well as eastern Honduras (for which sources are cited in that article). What additional citation is needed?

Another question: Many of the citations in this article reference a recent, popular article in the [[New Yorker]] magazine by Douglas Preston rather than the original source material to which Preston himself refers (such as the ''New York Times'' article about Morde). Wouldn't it be preferable to cite the original sources of this information, especially when using direct quotations?

:Wikipedia is never a valid source, so a hyperlink is not a substitution for a source... Of course, it would be preferable to cite the NYT directly.  However, it's not a big deal unless you think Preston is making stuff up. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 03:14, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
::I don't think that Preston is making stuff up, but I do think he is being selective about how he presents the (uncited) source material. He is a popular writer, not a scientist, and his article in the ''New Yorker'' provides no citations of primary material, including sources on Morde. I realize that a hyperlink is not a substitution for a source, but you seem to be saying that a source in a hyperlinked Wikipedia article must be ''repeated'' in the article that contains the hyperlink in order for the point in the hyperlinked article to be make again. Is that correct? I still don't understand what citation(s) would be needed to assert that well-known sites in Costa Rica and Colombia are actually located in those countries and that those countries are actually part of an established cultural-geographic unit. Are you seeking references to additional sources for every fact in the article? [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 04:57, 24 May 2013 (UTC)
:::Yes, they need repeated.  I tagged uncited paragraphs.  Every fact should be supported. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 13:51, 24 May 2013 (UTC)

By the way, you may disagree, but I think it's fairly obvious that [[Theodore Morde]] is an extremely unreliable source. From what I can tell, he was an explorer and spy with no archaeological credentials whatsoever who was funded by George Heye to bring huge collections of undocumented artifacts back from Honduras. His story of a &quot;City of the Monkey God&quot; seems likely to be a complete fabrication designed to titillate investors, generate news stories, sell his book, and generate buzz at upscale cocktail parties. (There are no references that I know to any &quot;Monkey God&quot; in either Mesoamerica or Central America, although [[Hanuman]] is a popular [[Hindu]] monkey deity.) The quality of Morde's scientific contributions seems to be nil, so we are probably fortunate that he never returned to Honduras to damage any archaeological sites. If a moderately reliable source (Douglas Preston) cites a mostly unreliable source (Theodore Morde), does that somehow make it reliable? Shouldn't preference be given to the ''most'' reliable sources, namely doctoral dissertations from accredited universities, peer-reviewed scientific journals, and books published by reputable university presses? [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 05:11, 24 May 2013 (UTC)

:Uh, the only thing Morde is cited for is Morde's story.  There is no illusion that it is true. You can not deny that his story, whether completely made up or only exaggerated, is an important part of the legend's history.  This is not an article about meso-American archaeology (there are several on Wikipedia though) but rather the history of a cultural phenomenon (legend) that relates to archaeology.  And, I don't think you will find too many academic sources talking about the legend.  (Although I have tracked down one written by Begley and published in some obscure journal, which I have requested on inter-library loan.)  Plenty talking about real archaeology in the region, sure, but again that is not the subject of these article. 
:Also, it seems he did not become a spy until after his Honduran visit. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 01:39, 25 May 2013 (UTC)
::I count no less than 4 qualifying phrases (&quot;reported&quot;, &quot;claimed&quot;, &quot;according to legend&quot;, &quot;supposed&quot;), or five if you count &quot;adventurer&quot;, in the two paragraphs about Morde.  I don't think it could be more clear that what is written about is a ''story'' he told, not anything resembling archaeology. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 01:59, 25 May 2013 (UTC)
:::Maybe so, but discussions of the thousands of artifacts that Morde supposedly brought back from Honduras for the Heye Foundation should not be considered proof that he found any &quot;lost city.&quot; It seems likely that the objects he exported were not the result of excavations (much less scientific excavations), but perhaps purchases of objects with unknown provenience. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 21:57, 11 June 2013 (UTC)
::::I'm not sure what you are getting at, as the article certainly does not speak of &quot;proof&quot; of anything.  However, it obviously relevant that he brought back artifacts.  There is a big difference between a story only and a story + artifacts.  As to the source of the artifacts, that is pure speculation on your part. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 02:59, 12 June 2013 (UTC)
Since you've restored the assertion, &quot;archaeologists have come to realize that the pre-Columbian peoples of Mosquitia were a lot more sophisticated than previously thought,&quot; you need to provide a source for that. A lot more sophisticated that ''who'' previously thought? When? (&quot;Previously&quot; can mean centuries, decades, years, days, or minutes ago.) Some clarification of what you mean by &quot;sophisticated&quot; would be helpful, as well as some parameters of time. More sophisticated at the supposed time of occupation of Ciudad Blanca? (And when would that have been?) More sophisticated in [[Paleoindian]] times? Note that I removed this sentence because it is relatively meaningless as it stands. You must justify its inclusion or remove it as something that reflects your own opinion and POV. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 16:14, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
:Its not my POV.  I know the concept is difficult for you to understand, but I am just reporting what the sources say - not my opinion on anything. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 18:50, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
::Yet another [[ad hominem]]. Will they never cease? Please stop the personal attacks. Read what I wrote: &quot;You must justify its inclusion or remove it&quot; is the part that matters most. If you can't, it's POV. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 01:30, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::Says the master of ad hominem attacks. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 01:49, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::::Say you in yet another ''ad hominem'' attack. Please stop. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 16:37, 17 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::The irony here is amazing. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 00:09, 18 June 2013 (UTC)

== Inappropriate behavior by Hoopes ==

As long as a third party is coming here, someone needs to tell Hoopes in no uncertain terms that it is not acceptable to repeatedly [[WP:AGF|assume by bad faith]] about another editor.  Even if I am wrong about every point in dispute (and I don't even know what those are at this point), it is not acceptable to continually assert that I am editing to push a POV and refusing to believe anything I say about myself.  I have denied these false claims more than a dozen times and yet they keep being repeated. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 23:44, 13 June 2013 (UTC)
:Whether or not you are pushing a POV is one of the issues that needs to be determined by a third party. It is one thing to [[WP:AGF|assume by bad faith]] and another to have the impression of bad faith confirmed over and over by what appear to be statements and changes made in bad faith. At that point, it is not something assumed but rather taken for granted. If [[User:ThaddeusB]] is actually ''not'' acting in bad faith, then he should make a concerted effort to participate in and honor discussions on the article's talk page ''before'' reverting changes that have been made ''in good faith'' by other editors. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 03:45, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::Thanks for the perfect example of what I am talking about.  [[User:Hoopes]] thinks I am acting in bad faitgh, so it is not a personal attack (according to him) to say it over and over and over and over and over again.  What a joke.  And for the record, I have participated in every single discussion on this page. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 03:56, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::Well, no. What I wrote was, &quot;'''If''' [[User:ThaddeusB]] is actually ''not'' acting in bad faith, '''then''' he should make a concerted effort to participate in and honor discussions on the article's talk page ''before'' reverting changes that have been made ''in good faith'' by other editors.&quot; While you have participated in the discussions, you have also reverted changes without discussing them. I think what's required is a moratorium on either you or I editing this article until we have some third party responses either from administrators or others. Until then, the talk page is the appropriate place to discuss differences of interpretation or opinion. '''If''' you are not acting in bad faith, '''then''' you will honor this request until third party mediation occurs. '''If''' you don't, '''then''' I will presume bad faith. By the way, comments such as &quot;What a joke&quot; are not appreciated and contribute to what I interpret as a pattern of hostility. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 04:30, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::::Putting &quot;if&quot; in front of an attack, is a word trick.  It does not negate the attack in actuality. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 04:39, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::Well, no. It's not a &quot;word trick&quot; at all. It's what the words actually mean. Saying &quot;''if'' you are wrong&quot; is not the same as saying &quot;you ''are'' wrong.&quot; [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 16:42, 17 June 2013 (UTC)
== History of exploration ==
In 2001 there was an expedition to Mosquitia led by Ray Mears, renowned expert in expeditions, bushcraft and aboriginal survival skills, along with actor Ewan McGregor. This video is on Youtube. They found traces of this civilization: roads paved with slabs of stone, stone containers, tables, carved stones... This is the link to the video on Youtube: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kE1W7XwYGKk  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:190.4.4.123|190.4.4.123]] ([[User talk:190.4.4.123|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/190.4.4.123|contribs]]) 11:05, November 28, 2012‎&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt;
: Mentioned @ 17:50--&lt;font color=&quot;gold&quot;&gt;[[User:Auric|Auric]]&lt;/font&gt; 14:51, 28 November 2012 (UTC)

I have added references to &quot;Jungle&quot; Jim Ewing and Ted Maschal (a.k.a. Ted Danger), explorers and aspiring filmmakers who popularized the search for Ciudad Blanca in the early 1990s. Additional citations to newspaper and magazine articles about their work can be provided if necessary. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 23:20, 23 May 2013 (UTC)

=== ''Jungleland'' ===
The sections on Christopher Stewart's expedition and popular book should be expanded with more specific references to his methodology, where he traveled, what he found, and what (if anything) his work contributed to the legend. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 23:23, 11 June 2013 (UTC)
:It would be nice to see more content in this article from Stewart's recent book, which seems likely to play a significant role in contributing to the legend of Ciudad Blanca. I have not yet had access to this source, so contributions from an editor who does would be welcome and would help add a variety of perspectives on this topic. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 15:18, 19 June 2013 (UTC)

== Archaeologists and their areas of specialization ==
Saying one person specializes in the archaeology of Honduras (and even eastern Honduras) while another specializes in the archaeology of Mexico (and even Michoacán, Mexico) is a significant distinction. While the analogy is imperfect, saying someone is a specialist in Mesoamerica is like saying they are a specialist in Europe. The differences between specialists in the UK and Romania are significant. Furthermore, note that the part of Honduras in which Ciudad Blanca is rumored to exist is ''not'' a part of Mesoamerica, although it may have been influenced by distant Mesoamerican cultures. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 03:21, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
Part of the reason the distinction matters is because the archaeological features and architectural styles of Mexico, and especially Michoacán, are ''radically'' different from those of the Isthmo-Colombian area. Someone who is familiar with one may mistakenly identify the features found in another. The same is true for settlement patterns and the recognition of &quot;cities&quot;. These are issues that matter. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 03:26, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
The statements about Joyce and Fisher that you changed were not inaccurate. They were absolutely correct. You are making arbitrary decisions based on your own ignorance and are reducing, not increasing, the quality of this article. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 03:37, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:The descriptions are inaccurate.  Neither describes themselves the way you do.  Both have done research related to multiple countries. Their areas come from your original research about their qualifications, not reality.  It is a great example of your POV pushing that Fisher is unqualified and Joyce is high qualified. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 03:41, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::It is ''not'' my POV that Fisher is unqualified and Joyce is highly qualified and you are being disingenuous to claim that. Fisher is highly qualified with respect to the use of LiDAR to identify archaeological features under heavy vegetation and Joyce is highly qualified in issues pertaining to the archaeology of Honduras. However, Fisher has never done fieldwork in eastern Honduras--an area whose archaeology is quite different from that of his main area of emphasis in Mexico--and Joyce (a more senior researcher) ''also'' has experience with interpreting LiDAR imagery. You are inserting your own POV in attempting to portray them as individuals with no differences or distinctions in their qualifications, information that would run counter to the narrative that it seems you are attempting to support--that the UTL team has actually found a &quot;lost city&quot; that might be the one mentioned in a &quot;legend of Ciudad Blanca.&quot; [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 04:09, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::As usual your assumption about my motives is false. The description of Fisher's expertise comes from you and no one else.  When I asked for a source, you claimed it was ridiculous to ask for one.  The description of his expertise is even disputed by the man himself.  Yet you insist you are right. If that isn't inserting your POV, I don't know what is.--[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 04:32, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::::What you are saying (including your snide &quot;as usual&quot; comment) is hostile and incorrect. When you asked for a source, I did not claim it was ridiculous to ask for one. (Read the first comments in the talk page section on &quot;Fisher.&quot;) In fact, I provided one (to his own website). What I said was ridiculous was your unwillingness to identify as an expert someone who was a tenured professor with a particular area of specialization. (Also known as '''expert'''ise.) You say the description of his expertise is disputed by the man himself. Do you have a source for that? [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 04:38, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::::Note that I have '''not''' made an assumption about your motives. What I said was that &quot;it '''seems''' you are attempting to support&quot; a particular narrative. To me it actually ''seems'' that way, but that I am not assuming that is '''true'''. If it is '''false''', then please make that clear. I have doubts and would like to be persuaded that what '''seems''' is not actually what '''is'''. (It is the latter that would be an assumption.) This is at the heart of why I think you are pushing a POV. However, I'm willing to be proven wrong. '''To be as clear as possible, please assure me that you are NOT attempting to support a narrative that the UTL team has actually found a &quot;lost city&quot; that might be the one mentioned in a &quot;legend of Ciudad Blanca.&quot;''' I would be much more comfortable with your edits if I could believe that. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 04:59, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::(As I said previously more than once), I 100% absolutely am not trying to push a narrative that the UTL team found la Ciudad Blanca.  My actual interest ''was'' (pretty much gone now) to get to the bottom of where the legend came from (as much as possible) and to correct the many inaccuracies surrounding it found in careless sources.  I was made aware of it because of the UTL news coverage (not Preston's article) sure, but no I don't think &quot;''the'' White City&quot; is what UTL found.  My aim on all my edits on all articles I edit is to accurately reflect what sources say, not push my opinion. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 06:24, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::The sources used to support the sentence are Preston's article (which I know does not say anything about Fisher being a Mexican specialist) and a LA Times article which describes Fisher merely as an archeologist with no specialization listed.  The article is about a Mexican site, but it is you who makes the jump from &quot;studied this Mexican site&quot; to &quot;specializes in Mexico&quot;. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 04:56, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::Preston may not mention Fisher's specialization, but I provided a citation to Fisher's own website. You are making meaningless semantic distinctions. Maybe you have a basis for complaint in saying that reading Fisher's website to find out what he specializes in is an example of original research using primary sources, but that seems really trivial. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 05:04, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::And &quot;Fisher's own website&quot; [http://anthropology.colostate.edu/pages/faculty/fisher.aspx] Clearly says Mesoamerican, not Mexican. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]])!
::::::Fine. If you want to go with &quot;Mesoamerican&quot; instead of &quot;Mexican&quot; for Fisher, go ahead. The reason I used &quot;Mexican&quot; was to create a parallel construction with &quot;Honduran&quot; for Joyce. All of Michoacán is in Mexico and most of Mexico (including Michoacán) is in Mesoamerica. All of Honduras is not in Mesoamerica. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 05:04, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::I don't plan to edit the article again until the arguments die down. However, if you now realize you misremembered your source (LA Times, not Fisher's personal website) and agree that categorizing him as a Mexican specialist unfairly diminishes his authority, then please make the edit yourself. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 05:45, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::::I don't agree that categorizing Fisher as a Mexican specialist unfairly diminishes his authority, but I have made an edit myself citing a reliable source on his geographic area of specialization. I hope that will be satisfactory. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 14:56, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::::No further diminishing his area of study by using a popular science website while ignoring his own website does not in any way address my concern. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 15:05, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::::BTW, this is an excellent example of why it is important to use sources about Ciudad Blanca specifically whenever possible.  As used in the original article, the descriptor is a compliment on Fisher's ability to assess the Mexican archaeology in question.  As used here, it subtly undermines his ability to assess Honduran archaeology.  In other words, it is an unfair [[WP:SYNTH|synthesis]] on your part.  (And the characterization clearly does diminish his authority or you wouldn't have described the edit by saying &quot;The distinction is significant.&quot;) --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 15:52, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::If you wonder whether I have any knowledge of these things, you can [http://kansas.academia.edu/hoopes check my own background] and areas of specialization. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 05:07, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::Yes, I am well aware that you feel your personal background gives your opinions special authority. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 05:45, 14 June 2013 (UTC)

*It seems like [[User:Example]] is a giant douchebag who wants to destroy Wikipedia!  (Don't worry, there is no personal attack here I only said it seems like his is a douchebag, not that he is one.) --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 05:45, 14 June 2013 (UTC)

I've been asked to weigh in here - I would indeed prefer not to be labeled as a 'Mexican' specialist.  I find it to be inaccurate and limiting.  Mexico and Mesoamerica do not reference the same geographic region.  Mesoamerica includes parts of Mexico, but also of course many other Latin American countries including Honduras.  Sometimes the phrase 'Mexican specialist' is used to refer to a scholar that studies colonial or post-colonial Mexico - 100% not my area of expertise.  Also, though I have worked and published on prehistoric societies at the northern Mesoamerican frontier (Zacatecas) my knowledge stops there and does not include the vast regions of Mexico to the north.  A more apt description might be a Highland Mesoamerican scholar though I do have experience in the Lowlands.  And of course as a Mesoamerican scholar that is dedicated to a comparative approach I try and keep abreast (as best as one can) of the academic literature from throughout the region - not just Michoacán for example - including the northern and southern frontiers.  I also reserve the right to research the archaeological record globally to better understand anthropological questions that may interest me.  As such I have also worked in and published on the European and North American archaeological record.  Therefore, if I must be labeled, it should be as a Mesoamerican specialist.  

In terms of Rosemary Joyce, though I am uncomfortable speaking for her, I would assume that same would apply.  It seems to me that labeling her as a 'Honduran' rather then 'Mesoamerican' specialist has the effect of diminishing her extensive contribution.  [[User:Tariacuri|Tariacuri]] ([[User talk:Tariacuri|talk]]) 20:39, 15 June 2013 (UTC)
:Thanks for the clarifications. According to [[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]], we must use what is reported in secondary sources and provide citations for those. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 16:46, 17 June 2013 (UTC)
:::[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] has also made it quite clear that it is important to use ''relevant'' sources.  What you have done is a textbook case of [[WP:SYNTH]].  By taking a comment in a news article about Mexico intended to be a compliment (i.e. that Fisher is qualified to talk about the archaeology in the article) and applying in to an unrelated context (Honduran archaeology) who have created a situation where the implication (he is less qualified to talk about the archaeology in question) that is not supported by any source.  That is the definition of original research by synthesis. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 00:15, 18 June 2013 (UTC)
::::I disagree and I think you are mistaken. I fail to see how I have created a situation where there is any implication that he is less qualified to talk about the archaeology in question, an interpretation that reflects your personal prejudices and POV rather than anything in the content of the article. You are reading conclusions into my citation that are not there. There is no [[WP:SYNTH]] content, so you are mistaken. Making edits on the basis of your personal interpretations of &quot;implications&quot; rather than the actual content of the article and what's actually said in the article is what I'm referring to as heavy-handed application of your own POV. That is inappropriate. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 14:46, 18 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::The source used is about an unrelated project. The description used there doesn't automatically apply everywhere and to force it to is synthesis. The fact that you insist this information is important pretty clearly indicates that it does lead to an unfair conclusion just like &quot;Tariacuri&quot; (aka Chris Fisher) says. [[Special:Contributions/140.254.45.34|140.254.45.34]] ([[User talk:140.254.45.34|talk]]) 15:19, 18 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::It is not an unrelated project. In fact, it is the project that established Fisher's authority on interpretations of [[LiDAR]] imagery for identifying architectural features under dense vegetation. There is no implication of an unfair conclusion. A specialist in Mesoamerica can be identified as a specialist in the ancient Maya without diminishing their general area of expertise. Similarly, a specialist in Mesoamerica can be identified as a specialist in West Mexico without diminishing their general area of expertise. Identifying someone as a specialist in Honduras does not imply that they do not have expertise in Mesoamerica any more than saying that someone who is a specialist in Mars does not have expertise in planets. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 15:35, 18 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::If it doesn't matter, why do you insist on pushing it.  Fisher's own website and his words above dispute your POV.  The source you used is verifiable false - Fisher does not specialize in Mexico.  Why do you insist on including this falsehood if it is not to diminish Fisher's ability? [[Special:Contributions/140.254.45.34|140.254.45.34]] ([[User talk:140.254.45.34|talk]]) 15:46, 18 June 2013 (UTC)

So which is it Hoopes?  First you say &quot;The distinction is significant&quot; between being a specialist in Mexico and Mesoamerica.  Now you say it does not imply anything.  The information you wish to include is synthesis, despite your insistence it is not, but more importantly it simply is incorrect.  Fisher is a much better source for Fisher's area of specialization than some random news article.  Furthermore, the ''relevant'' information is included in the very next sentence. The two sentence combination 
:&quot;In mid-June 2012, archaeologist Christopher Fisher of Colorado State University joined the UTL project. Fisher, who had previously used LiDAR at the Purépecha archaeological site of Angamuco in Michoacán, Mexico, spent six months analyzing Elkins's data.&quot;
is both more direct (less redundant) and more accurate than the two sentence combination you are pushing
:&quot;In mid-June 2012, archaeologist Christopher Fisher of Colorado State University, a specialist in Western Mexico and LiDAR applications, joined the UTL project. Fisher, who had previously used LiDAR at the Purépecha archaeological site of Angamuco in Michoacán, Mexico, spent six months analyzing Elkins's data.&quot;
Again Fisher is ''not'' a specialist is Western Mexico; nor he is a specialist in LiDAR.  His own website makes no such claims; his own words above directly contradict this assertion.  And if you still don't believe it, check his published work - it most certainly is not exclusively or primarily about Mexico. Yes a reliable source said he was a specialist in Western Mexico.  However, better sources say otherwise.  --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 17:20, 18 June 2013 (UTC)
OK guys. I want to help here but I don't feel like wading through 10,000 words of invective. The issue here is sources. What sources are you using? Can you quote them? If you're not using sources, then I don't want to know. &lt;b&gt;[[User:Serendipodous|&lt;font color=&quot;#00b&quot;&gt;Serendi&lt;/font&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/Serendipodous|&lt;sup&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;#b00&quot;&gt;pod&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;]]&lt;font color=&quot;#00b&quot;&gt;[[User talk: Serendipodous|ous]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/b&gt; 17:47, 18 June 2013 (UTC)
:Well, actually, Fisher is ''both'' a specialist in Western Mexico ''and'' a specialist in LiDAR. In fact, it was ''because'' he is a specialist in LiDAR that he became a member of the UTL team. I really don't know how you're interpreting the phrase &quot;a specialist in,&quot; since a person can have ''many'' areas of expertise. What Fisher said in his comments is that he doesn't want to be identified as &quot;a specialist in Mexican archaeology.&quot; That completely makes since, because Mexican archaeology is a huge field. It's such a general identification as to be virtually meaningless when it's said that someone &quot;specializes&quot; in it, in part because territories of cultures such as the ancient Maya go well beyond Mexico into Belize, Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras. However, saying someone is a specialist in Western Mexico (or even a specialist in [[Tarascan]] culture) is more useful because it is more focused. Regardless, any identification must be supported by a source. If there were a '''source''' that said Fisher specialized in Tarascan culture (a.k.a. [[Purépecha people]]), I would use that. However, the full quote ''from the source that I have provided'' says, &quot;An archaeologist specializing in Western Mexico, Fisher studies the way environments affect and change cultures. LiDAR has helped him repaint the picture of ancient Mexico, bringing the little-known Purepecha empire a lot more historical prominence.&quot; If you have a different source that provides alternative facts, please cite it. I don't think it's fair to remove information because it doesn't represent your personal POV. As [[User:Serendipodous]] points out, the issue here is '''sources'''. If [[User:ThaddeusB]] is making ''his own'' interpretation based on ''his own'' reading of Fisher's list of publications and comments that Fisher has posted in the talk section of this article, that is [[WP:OR]] and does not belong. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 14:12, 19 June 2013 (UTC)

:Hoopes wishes to have this wording:
::&quot;In mid-June 2012, archaeologist Christopher Fisher of Colorado State University, a specialist in Western Mexico and LiDAR applications, joined the UTL project. Fisher, who had previously used LiDAR at the Purépecha archaeological site of Angamuco in Michoacán, Mexico, spent six months analyzing Elkins's data.&quot;
:based on [http://arstechnica.com/science/2012/03/indiana-jones-goes-geek-laser-mapping-lidar-revolutionizes-archaeology/ this source about a Mexican project of Fisher's] (&quot;An archaeologist specializing in Western Mexico, Fisher studies the way environments affect and change cultures.&quot;).  My position is that the context of that article makes the statement a compliment, but when it is applied to a different context, the statement gives the wrong impression. Chris Fisher himself has said above that this is an inaccurate description of his work. (&quot;I would indeed prefer not to be labeled as a 'Mexican' specialist.  I find it to be inaccurate and limiting.&quot;)  I propose the following simplification which does not take a position on his area of study:
::&quot;In mid-June 2012, archaeologist Christopher Fisher of Colorado State University joined the UTL project. Fisher, who had previously used LiDAR at the Purépecha archaeological site of Angamuco in Michoacán, Mexico, spent six months analyzing Elkins's data.&quot;
:In addition to Fisher's own words, [http://anthropology.colostate.edu/pages/faculty/fisher.aspx his website] says he studies Mesoamerica in general, not specifically Mexico. (&quot;Dr. Fisher has active research projects in two areas of Mesoamerica&quot;).  A listing of [http://anthropology.colostate.edu/documents/FisherCV2013.pdf his published work] shows that most items are not specific to Mexico (a [http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=%22christopher+t+fisher%22&amp;btnG=&amp;hl=en&amp;as_sdt=0%2C36  GScholar search] shows likewise).  Additionally, the relevant part of the material (that Fisher has used LiDAR before and where) is already conveyed in the second sentence. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 18:24, 18 June 2013 (UTC)
::You are now engaging in original research rather than citing a published source. If you have a reliable published source identifying Fisher in the general way that you think he should be identified, then please cite it, which is what you requested that I do (and what I did in response to your request). By interpreting primary material, you are engaging in [[WP:OR]]. Furthermore, removing a reference to his focus on West Mexico (the Purépecha) diminishes, not increases, the information quality of this article. There is no reason he cannot be identified as someone who studies &quot;Mesoamerica in general&quot; as well as being someone who is &quot;a specialist in Western Mexico&quot; (as was stated in the source that I cited). Both are factually correct and represent [[WP:NPOV]] rather than your personal interpretation. However, as you have repeatedly insisted, assertions must be backed up by reference to specific sources. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 19:19, 18 June 2013 (UTC)
:::First, why is this an issue? Does it really matter? You both agree that this person is a Mesoamerican scholar; is there some specific reason to mention his specialisation? Other than that, I mostly agree with Hoopes. ThaddeusB's sourcing borders on synthesis and original research, so if it must be included, I'd prefer a direct source like Hoopes's. &lt;b&gt;[[User:Serendipodous|&lt;font color=&quot;#00b&quot;&gt;Serendi&lt;/font&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/Serendipodous|&lt;sup&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;#b00&quot;&gt;pod&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;]]&lt;font color=&quot;#00b&quot;&gt;[[User talk: Serendipodous|ous]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/b&gt; 19:27, 18 June 2013 (UTC)
::::Please reread, I am advocating to ''not'' take a position on his specialization (which is what you seem to be saying, yet you &quot;agree&quot; with Hoopes).  The above info was cited to prove Hoopes' source is wrong, not to be included in the article.  My position is to stick with what dircetly relevant sources say about his specialization - which is nothing.  As to why it is important, Hoopes' edit summary to (re)-add the specialization says there is a big difference between Mexico and Mesoamerica.  Chris Fisher himself agrees and says the description provided by Hoopes is wrong.  Should we take an out of context description by a reporter as authoritative while ignoring Fisher's own comment? Or should we stick to what sources ''about La Ciudad Blanca'' have to say on the matter which is simply that he is an archeologist with experience using LiDAR? --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 19:41, 18 June 2013 (UTC)
::::BTW, The reliable source I used to support [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=La_Ciudad_Blanca&amp;diff=prev&amp;oldid=560372736 my edit] describes Fisher precisely as I do - simply as &quot;an archeologist&quot; with no further qualification. The same is true about every other news article about Ciudad Blanca - not a single one describes Fisher as a Mexican specialist, but instead call him &quot;an archeologist&quot;.  The only source for this supposed Mexican specialization is an older article on a Mexican project. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 19:55, 18 June 2013 (UTC)

Let me be clear; I would prefer a wording that left out the man's specialisation entirely (even simply calling him an &quot;archaeologist&quot; would be good enough). But if the subject must be broached at all, then I would prefer a direct source, like the one Hoopes provided. &lt;b&gt;[[User:Serendipodous|&lt;font color=&quot;#00b&quot;&gt;Serendi&lt;/font&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/Serendipodous|&lt;sup&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;#b00&quot;&gt;pod&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;]]&lt;font color=&quot;#00b&quot;&gt;[[User talk: Serendipodous|ous]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/b&gt; 20:18, 18 June 2013 (UTC)
:I am 100% in agreement that the specialization bit should be left off and removed it per your suggestion.  Unfortunately, Hoopes has restored it and tweaked it to read &quot;a Mesoamerican specialist with expertise in Western Mexico&quot;. This does not fix my concerns (and is less consistent with the source).  I you could please (re-)remove the material yourself, I would appreciate it as I do not wish to revert any further. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 04:32, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
::Personally, I think that an appropriate decision about how best to handle this--''with'' or ''without'' any edit--should be made by a party other than [[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] or myself. I will not revert any changes that are made by an identifiable third party who understands the issues and is able to honor [[WP:NPOV]] and [[WP:OR]]. This would recognize that only paying attention to the concerns of [[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] is ''not'' neutral. (It's my own feeling that the &quot;Mesoamerican specialist&quot; identification requires a source, as has been provided for reference to the direct quote, &quot;An archaeologist specializing in Western Mexico,&quot; but I'm willing to compromise by not insisting on that.) Our agreeing to this would represent a true consensus. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 06:29, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
:::You do realize that you have just said anyone who disagrees with you (supports my conclusion) either doesn't understand the issue or is non-neutral, right?  I'm sorry but that is not how things work.  You don't get to decide someone is non-neutral\doesn't understand the issues because you don't like their conclusion.
:::And you have again misrepresented by position.  I do not wish to say Fisher is a &quot;Mesoamerican specialist&quot;  - I wish to say nothing at all.  The dispute is between ''&quot;archaeologist Christopher Fisher of Colorado State University, '''a specialist in Western Mexico'''. joined the UTL project. Fisher, who had previously used LiDAR at the Purépecha archaeological site of Angamuco in Michoacán, Mexico...&quot;'' and ''&quot;archaeologist Christopher Fisher of Colorado State University joined the UTL project. Fisher, who had previously used LiDAR at the Purépecha archaeological site of Angamuco in Michoacán, Mexico...&quot;''  The only difference is you want (some version of) the bold part and I do not.  Adding more words is not a compromise; it is just a different version of the same thing.  Serendipodous if you still prefer the version w/o the added words, can you make the edit?  If I make the edit, Hoopes will revert it and claim I misunderstood your words.  The relevant section is [[La_Ciudad_Blanca#UTL_interpretations_of_LiDAR_data|here]]. (Note the current wording is &quot;a Mesoamerican specialist with expertise in Western Mexico&quot;) --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]])
::::Well, no. The dispute is whether or not to change the current wording (including the citation): &quot;In mid-June 2012, archaeologist Christopher Fisher of [[Colorado State University]], a Mesoamerican specialist with expertise in Western Mexico,&lt;ref&gt;Hopkins, Curt  &quot;[http://arstechnica.com/science/2012/03/indiana-jones-goes-geek-laser-mapping-lidar-revolutionizes-archaeology/ Indiana Jones goes geek: Laser-mapping LiDAR revolutionizes archaeology].&quot; ''Arstecnica'' March 10,2012.&lt;/ref&gt; joined the UTL project.&quot; You say you &quot;wish to say nothing at all&quot; based on your own [[WP:OR]] and I wish to include wording and information (including the citation to Fisher's previous research in Western Mexico) from a cited source that strengthens the quality of the article. Since we are each claiming that the other's position violates [[WP:NPOV]], the issue should be settled by an experienced and objective Wikipedia administrator. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 13:55, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::The sources ''about Ciudad Blanca'' say nothign about Fisher's qualifications.  We should do likewise. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 15:11, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::Despite my request that the issue be settled by an experienced and objective Wikipedia administrator, [[User:ThaddeusB]] has just gone ahead and made the reversion anyway. As I've pointed out, this change is being made on the basis of his violation of [[WP:NPOV]] and [[WP:OR]]. This is, for me, evidence of [[WP:ABF]] on his part, which is unacceptable. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 16:09, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::This statement is false.  Hoopes most recent wording is still in the article.  False accusations of wrong doing are unacceptable. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 16:15, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::::That is correct. What I assumed was incorrect. I saw the reversion on the history page and assumed it was the one we'd been discussing. I apologize for the mistake. I was wrong and that was a violation of [[WP:GF]] on my part. However, it ''was'' yet another reversion of my edits. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 16:42, 19 June 2013 (UTC)

==I've been asked to mediate==
Both you guys need to calm the frigging heck down. I've glanced at the last few edits, and as far as I can tell this dispute revolves around two points: 1. Whether information from an article in the ''New Yorker'' written by Preston should be mentioned in the text. 2. Whether Fisher and Joyce should be credited simply as Mesoamerican scholars or specifically as scholars of their respective specialisations. 

Let me be clear here: this is an exceptionally minor content dispute. The kind of ink both of you have been wasting is what we normally see wasted on religious or nationalist issues. None of the edits that I have seen (granted, I've only glanced at the list) has adversely affected the article to any vast degree. That said, here is my opinion: 1. The ''New Yorker'' is a valid source; however, much of the details regarding the finer points of the expedition are irrelevant and better left to a biographical article on Elkins. 2. Fisher and Joyce should be credited as far as the sources allow. If valid sources say that they specialise in specific areas, then they should be credited in those areas. If they don't say that, then they shouldn't be. 

I'm sure there are other issues at stake here, but from what I've seen, that's where I stand. Now I think both of you need to take a breather before coming back to this. &lt;b&gt;[[User:Serendipodous|&lt;font color=&quot;#00b&quot;&gt;Serendi&lt;/font&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/Serendipodous|&lt;sup&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;#b00&quot;&gt;pod&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;]]&lt;font color=&quot;#00b&quot;&gt;[[User talk: Serendipodous|ous]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/b&gt; 06:25, 14 June 2013 (UTC)

:Thanks for your comments.  The list of disputed points are a few sections above (&quot;Points of agreement dispute&quot;). --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 06:28, 14 June 2013 (UTC)

::Re:should the article focus on myth or archaeology? The answer is neither. It should give coverage to both, as both are notable. Wikipedia is not an academic journal; it is intended for the generalist lay reader and so should be as broad in coverage as possible. That said, there should be a solid foundation of academic material on which to layer a more populist glaze, as it were. &lt;b&gt;[[User:Serendipodous|&lt;font color=&quot;#00b&quot;&gt;Serendi&lt;/font&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/Serendipodous|&lt;sup&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;#b00&quot;&gt;pod&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;]]&lt;font color=&quot;#00b&quot;&gt;[[User talk: Serendipodous|ous]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/b&gt; 06:41, 14 June 2013 (UTC)

:::Thanks. I appreciate your attention and your input and agree with all you've said. It's nice to have another experienced editor involved. Any recommendations you have on how best to handle the issues of &quot;legend&quot; or &quot;myth&quot; or &quot;rumor&quot; or whatever this is with [[WP:NPOV]] would be especially helpful. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 14:35, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::::The availabel sources overwhelmingly (almost exclusively) use &quot;legend&quot;.  NPOV usually means sticking to what the sources say.  --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 14:42, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::Speaking as someone who took Classical Greek and Anglo-Saxon/Old Norse in college, this, as far as I can tell, is a legend, because it is tied to a specific place and time. A myth, strictly speaking, is an account of how the present world came to be (not necessarily a  creation myth; UFO conspiracy theories fit the description as well). A &quot;rumour&quot; implies that there is some plausibility to its existence. &lt;b&gt;[[User:Serendipodous|&lt;font color=&quot;#00b&quot;&gt;Serendi&lt;/font&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/Serendipodous|&lt;sup&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;#b00&quot;&gt;pod&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;]]&lt;font color=&quot;#00b&quot;&gt;[[User talk: Serendipodous|ous]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/b&gt; 14:46, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::This is not consistent with the (non-authoritative) definition of [[legend]] in Wikipedia itself, which specifies that a legend is based on a [[narrative]]. Can a narrative consist of only vague mentions in the form of a sentence or two here and there, or mustn't there be an actual ''story'' that constitutes the legend? My concern is that this Wikipedia article, created in June 2012 after sensational press, is actually contributing to an elaborate [[house of cards]] that has no firm foundation. That is, although there are allusions to a &quot;legend,&quot; there is actually no legend. There is no specific place (other than general references to rainforest areas of eastern Honduras) or any specific time other than the general pre-Hispanic period. At least, not until the 1990s. If the &quot;legend&quot; is that recent--and if it is one that has actually been fabricated in the media--does it actually qualify as a legend? Also, if it is a recent fabrication, is it notable? (As you'll see, this had some similarities to the [[2012 phenomenon]], in which Maya &quot;prophecies&quot; claimed to be ancient were not actual ancient Maya prophecies but fabrications appearing in recent popular literature or based on recent statements.) [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 15:12, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::The Mosquitia region of Honduras is a fairly specific location - more specific than anything said about El Dorado, for example -  and it was established as the place of Ciudad Blanca by 1925 at the latest.  As you have yourself said, there are multiple definitions of legend.  Just because it may (or may not) fail to fit one definition exactly doesn't mean it fails every definition of legend.  (And I am willing to take the testimony of people who work in the region that there are specific narratives told by Honduran people/children, even if those authorities have not published an example of the story word for word. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 15:56, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::::Legends grow fast. They always have. Antiquity has little to do with whether or not something is a legend. Plenty of modern legends, such conspiracies re: 9/11 or the World Trade Center bombing, started almost immediately. Many legends, such as the legend of [[Paul Bunyan]], are far younger than you might think. As far as narrative goes, well there are plenty of narratives mentioned in the article. Think about King Arthur. He's a legendary figure, but there are very few stories attached to him from the start; most of the stories we associate with him were invented or elaborated by later writers. &lt;b&gt;[[User:Serendipodous|&lt;font color=&quot;#00b&quot;&gt;Serendi&lt;/font&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/Serendipodous|&lt;sup&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;#b00&quot;&gt;pod&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;]]&lt;font color=&quot;#00b&quot;&gt;[[User talk: Serendipodous|ous]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/b&gt; 18:11, 14 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::::My question is not whether Ciudad Blanca has ''become'' a legend, but whether it existed as a [[narrative]] (not just a ''mention'') before the 1990s. It strikes me that a possible parallel to Ciudad Blanca is discussion over the reality and location of [[Smallville]]. In today's news, a story titled [http://www2.ljworld.com/news/2013/jun/17/location-supermans-hometown-sparks-geographic-divi/ Location of Superman’s hometown sparks geographic divide] highlights some of that controversy. As with Smallville, Ciudad Blanca is an imaginary place whose reality and location seems likely to always be a matter of interpretation. However, there is far more detailed narrative associated with Smallville than there ever has been for Ciudad Blanca. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 17:24, 17 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::::::So you are saying that La Ciudad Blanca is totally fictional? Or are you interpreting rumours and tall tales as deliberate fiction? &lt;b&gt;[[User:Serendipodous|&lt;font color=&quot;#00b&quot;&gt;Serendi&lt;/font&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/Serendipodous|&lt;sup&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;#b00&quot;&gt;pod&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;]]&lt;font color=&quot;#00b&quot;&gt;[[User talk: Serendipodous|ous]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/b&gt; 17:42, 17 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::::::I don't think [[fiction]] is the right term for it, since Ciudad Blanca has only recently been featured in works of fiction (such as the 2012 film ''El Xendra''). The term [[folklore]] is probably better. I do think that rumors have contributed to the growth of folklore, but note that &quot;lore&quot; is more diffuse than &quot;tales.&quot; A [[tall tale]] is a story, but there is not really a ''story'' about Ciudad Blanca, only vague references to a place that is rumored to exist. I think the term &quot;tall tales&quot; implies that there are actual ''tales'' (i.e. narratives) that in this case don't actually exist any more than legends do. For example, we can identify clear narratives with respect to the cases of [[Paul Bunyan]] and [[Smallville]], but that's not possible with Ciudad Blanca until the 1990s. Morde's narrative about the &quot;City of the Monkey God&quot; would be an example of a tall tale, but it's only later authors who suggest that what he was describing was tied to rumors of Ciudad Blanca. My principal concern is that the Wikipedia article is itself contributing to the active construction of a recent narrative. That said, I do think Ciudad Blanca is largely [[imagination|imaginary]]. You note, &quot;As far as narrative goes, well there are plenty of narratives mentioned in the article.&quot; Yes, they are mentioned, but I would submit that these are actually unsubstantiated ''rumors'' of narratives that contribute to the [[house of cards]] argument that there is a legend. More documentation is required before the assertion that there was a legend prior to the 1990s is credible. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 14:57, 18 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::::::::Jesús Aguilar Paz wrote a 10 page article on the history of the ''legend'' in 1970, but I suppose the head of the Honduran Historical and Geological Society also doesn't know what he is talking about and it's really just a &quot;myth&quot; (as if there is even a material difference between &quot;myth&quot; and &quot;legend&quot;).  And even if the legend originated after 1990, that would not make it any less notable, so I fail to see why we are even having this discussion.  --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 17:28, 18 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::::::::If Jesús Aguilar Paz wrote a 10-page article on the history of the legend in 1970, then why haven't you included a summary of just it is he says that legend is? My question, &quot;What is the legend?&quot; hasn't yet been answered. I think explaining the legend is an essential part of this article, without which its underlying premise--that there actually ''is'' a legend--becomes questionable. I think that if the legend originated after 1990, that actually ''would'' make it less notable. Does every recent [[urban legend]] that generates widespread media coverage deserve its own article in Wikipedia? I tend to think not. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 19:06, 18 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::::::::::[[WP:N|Notability]] in the Wikipedia sense is determined by coverage in reliable sources, not by how recent something is.  I am not interested in discussing other definitions of notability.  I do not specifically recall if Paz gives an account of the legend or not, but I am more than willing to take his word that there is one.  I am also more than willing to take Begley's testimony that he has heard multiple versions of the legend...  The (popular) legend as I understand it is basically &quot;A long time ago, before the Spanish came, there was a great city on the Honduran forest.  The city was the center of a great civilization and\or had great wealth.  The city was abandoned in a time of trouble. Remains persist to the present day, but no one has found them.&quot;  For the indigenous version replace &quot;great city&quot; with &quot;important spiritual site&quot;, remove reference to wealth, and add &quot;entry into the city is forbidden/no longer possible&quot;.  Different tellings throw in a few more details.  All of this, more or less, is what the article already says.  The only difference is that it also ties in Cortes' tale, which has been done by numerous people.  A legend doesn't need to be massive to be &quot;legitimate&quot;.  Indeed, most legends are very brief. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 19:34, 18 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::::::::::::Yes, I know that this is how you understand it, but what would the sources be for: 1) its being a &quot;great city,&quot; 2) its being &quot;the center of a great civilization,&quot; 3) its having &quot;great wealth,&quot; 4) its being &quot;abandoned in a time of trouble&quot;? From what I can tell, ''none'' of these elements have been documented as having existed ''together'' in an ''identifiable narrative'' until the 1990s and afterwards with the work of Ted Maschal (a.k.a. Ted Danger), Christopher Stewart, Steve Elkins, and Douglas Preston and accompanying press releases and popular articles. As I've mentioned, I'm concerned that this Wikipedia article is lending support to the idea that a coherent narrative existed of a &quot;legendary city&quot; prior to its recent invention. I'm not saying that such a narrative (or multiple narratives) ''didn't'' exist, only that so far the sources that have been provided for the existence of a narrative (or narratives) have been inadequate and explanations of the legend(s) incomplete and unsatisfactory. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 22:00, 18 June 2013 (UTC)

References to [[Smallville]] really just confuse the issue. Smallville is a fictional town, not a legendary one. But what about [[legendary creatures]], such as basilisks, dragons or griffons? Must a legendary creature have a narrative attached to it to be legendary? Regardless, La Ciudad Blanca is ''not'' a myth, at least not in the proper sense. &lt;b&gt;[[User:Serendipodous|&lt;font color=&quot;#00b&quot;&gt;Serendi&lt;/font&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/Serendipodous|&lt;sup&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;#b00&quot;&gt;pod&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;]]&lt;font color=&quot;#00b&quot;&gt;[[User talk: Serendipodous|ous]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/b&gt; 17:51, 18 June 2013 (UTC)
:From the article on [http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Myth myth] in the Simple English Wikipedia: &quot;A myth is a story that may or may not be true. Myths are generally very old. This means there are no records or other proof that they happened. We know about them from older people telling them to younger people. Some myths may have started as 'true' stories but as people told and re-told them, they may have changed some parts, so they are less 'true'. They may have changed them by mistake, or to make them more interesting. All cultures have myths.&quot; If Ciudad Blanca is not a myth, it's because there is no &quot;story&quot; However, if even a simple allusion counts, it ''is'' a myth. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 04:05, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
:Actually, I think the issue of Smallville is pertinent. Yes, it began as a fictional town in [[Superman]] comic books, but the point of the recent article I cited is that people in Kansas, Iowa, and elsewhere are now arguing over ''the actual location'' of this fictional town, which I think makes it into a legendary one that is connected with a specific place (or places) and time. As for legendary creatures, my answer is ''yes'', a legendary creature must have a narrative attached to it. There are narratives attached to all of your examples as well as to examples such as [[bigfoot]]. My point is not that there are ''no'' narratives attached to Ciudad Blanca, but that the narratives that have been identified in this article all date to the 1990s and later even though the article ''implies'' that there are earlier ones. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 19:06, 18 June 2013 (UTC)
::Some legendary creatures, such as Pegasus or Chimera, have narratives attached to them; others, like the basilisk, do not, and simply exist in bestiaries. Regardless, there has to be SOME kind of narrative attached to this place, otherwise it would be just a name. &lt;b&gt;[[User:Serendipodous|&lt;font color=&quot;#00b&quot;&gt;Serendi&lt;/font&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/Serendipodous|&lt;sup&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;#b00&quot;&gt;pod&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;]]&lt;font color=&quot;#00b&quot;&gt;[[User talk: Serendipodous|ous]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/b&gt; 19:30, 18 June 2013 (UTC)
:::Even if the narratives pertaining to legendary creatures such as the basilisk are very brief, there are at least useful descriptions of them that permit them to be identified. There is no description of &quot;Ciudad Blanca&quot; other than that it is a &quot;city&quot; that has been described as somehow being &quot;white,&quot; qualities that exist solely in its name. I'm not sure that minimal allusion qualifies it as a &quot;legendary place&quot; in the category of [[Camelot]] or [[Shangri-La]] (derived from the mythical kingdom of [[Shambhala]]), all of which have clear narratives attached to them. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 04:05, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
:::What I want to know is whether a sentence or two constitutes a narrative. For example, I'm skeptical that the following constitutes a legend: &quot;Once upon a time, before the Spanish came, there a 'white city' somewhere in the forests of eastern Honduras. People have looked for its ruins, but no one has ever found them.&quot; However, that seems to be the substance of the Ciudad Blanca narrative. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 22:00, 18 June 2013 (UTC)
::::Of course, there's also the rumor that, as with [[El Dorado]], it has some gold. I think that's pretty much the whole of it. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 04:15, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::That's more than a lot of legends. Until the fiction writers got ahold of him, the sum total of the Arthurian legend for most people was, &quot;There was this guy, his name was Arthur. He died, but he and his men are asleep. When we REALLY need him again, he'll come back.&quot; &lt;b&gt;[[User:Serendipodous|&lt;font color=&quot;#00b&quot;&gt;Serendi&lt;/font&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/Serendipodous|&lt;sup&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;#b00&quot;&gt;pod&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;]]&lt;font color=&quot;#00b&quot;&gt;[[User talk: Serendipodous|ous]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/b&gt; 07:27, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
== &quot;City of the Monkey God&quot; vs. &quot;Ciudad Blanca&quot; ==

[[User:ThaddeusB]] has reverted one of my edits on the basis of his interpretation that Theodore Morde equated what he called the &quot;City of the Monkey God&quot; with Ciudad Blanca. Unless an equivalence of the two can be demonstrated with a citation to a reliable source, interpreting what Morde referred to as the &quot;City of the Monkey God&quot; with Ciudad Blanca represents original research ([[WP:OR]]). A better approach would be to indicate the correct historical context for this association, assigning it to an appropriate source (such as the book by Stewart or the article by Preston). [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 17:31, 19 June 2013 (UTC)

:That is not an accurate description of the edit. Hoopes added a parenthetical aside saying Morde didn't call it &quot;Ciudad Blanca&quot;.  This is of course true, but is also quite obvious from the fact he called it &quot;City of the Monkey God&quot; (which is stated multiple times in the short section).  We don't need a parenthetical to state the obvious - our readers are not that dumb - so I deleted it. If we want to talk about OR, technically it is OR to write &quot;he didn't call it Ciudad Blanca&quot; when that is not stated by a source in the article.  But again, it is completely obvious - there is simply no need to state it with or without a source. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 17:48, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
::I'm sorry, but I don't think it is &quot;completely obvious&quot; that Morde did not call it Ciudad Blanca. In fact, this is implied by identification of Morde's term as an alternative name for Ciudad Blanca in the lead. That's why I felt the clarification was necessary. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 19:00, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
::: i tweaked the wording: ''According to the letter Morde sent home, the &quot;City of the Monkey God&quot; was found in &quot;an almost inaccessible area between the [[Paulaya River | Paulaya]] and [[Plátano River]]s.''  If that wording doesn't make it obvious what he called the &quot;city&quot;, then I don't know what wording will. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 20:12, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
::::Thanks for tweaking the wording. I think that was a good solution and I think that was a good edit. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 21:03, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
::::I don't think it is obvious at all what he called the &quot;city,&quot; especially since he never provided adequate documentation. Since we don't know where Ciudad Blanca is located, or whether it even exists, I think it is premature and an example of [[WP:OR]] to tie Morde's &quot;city&quot; with Ciudad Blanca except insofar as that has been done by recent authors such as Stewart and Preston. Given the available information, I don't think a connection is ever going to be &quot;obvious.&quot; I think the best you could do is to provide a reliable source that asserts the location of Ciudad Blanca is ''also'' located &quot;between the Paulaya and Plátano Rivers&quot; and leave it at that. As other sources indicate, there are actually ''many'' archaeological sources in that large region. It is a leap of interpretation to equate Morde's &quot;city&quot; with one of those sites, especially when none of those sites (including ones identified with LiDAR) has been shown to have the features described by Morde. If tying Morde's &quot;city&quot; to Ciudad Blanca is something that other authors have done, then ''that'' is what must be stated and documented with sources. In order to remain neutral, the Wikipedia article should not present speculation as if it were fact. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 20:49, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::Please explain where specifically I have &quot;inserted my personal POV&quot; into the article.  You like to make that accusation, but you never back it up with anything specific.  The article does not say it is &quot;obviously the same city&quot; - it says nothing about whether the sites are really the same or not.  RS do not say the two are different things, they choose to tie them together.  The fact that &quot;later sources&quot; tie the two together means that (guess what) RS tie the two together.  That is why it is included in this article.  You can argue it is the POV &quot;of recent sources&quot; all you want, but that is precisely what (neutral) Wikipedia articles are - the collective POV of all sources available. If most sources say X, we say X.  You seem to have a hard time distinguishing between my reporting of what RS say and what my POV is, so I will again say my (alleged) POV is not relevant, so please stop making assumptions about what it is.  Here, the sources tie the two together so we do too. It matter zero whether I (or you) think they should be tied together; the fact is that they are tied together. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 21:12, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::Copied from the discussion on my talk page: There are a number of sources cited in the article that say that Ciudad Blanca doesn't exist and that reports of it probably don't refer to a single site. This is far from &quot;the sources&quot; implying the two are the same thing. Some quotations already in the article: 1) &quot;Rosemary Joyce, a Mesoamerican specialist and expert on Honduran archaeology from UC Berkeley, called it 'big hype' and 'bad archaeology'. She added, 'there is no White City. The White City is a myth'; 2) &quot;Hasemann believed that rather than a single Ciudad Blanca there might be multiple Ciudades Blancas in la Mosquitia&quot;; 3) &quot;Most professional archaeologists remain skeptical that the various legends surrounding Ciudad Blanca refer to a specific site&quot;; 4) &quot;When asked if Ciudad Blanca had been found, Fisher laughed and said 'I don't think there is a single Ciudad Blanca. I think there are many.' The legend may hold cultural meaning, he said, but for archeologists it is mostly a distraction.&quot; Note that none of these refer to Morde. You are relying upon select sources to support your own POV, which is asserting it as fact that Morde's &quot;city&quot; and Ciudad Blanca &quot;are the same thing&quot; when that is not a fact but an opinion expressed by cherry-picked sources. You are engaging in [[WP:CHERRYPICKING]]. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 21:48, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::The article already makes it quite clear that most archeologists do not believe there ever was a place named Ciudad Blanca.  I'm not sure what more you want.  Please stop making claims about my POV.  That is not helpful. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 23:35, 19 June 2013 (UTC) 
::::::::What I refer to as your personal POV is your repeated editing of the article to reflect a POV in which it is implied, among other things, that: 1) there is actually a [[legend]] of Ciudad Blanca, 2) there is actually a &quot;lost city&quot; in eastern Honduras that has been called both &quot;City of the Monkey God&quot; and &quot;Ciudad Blanca,&quot; 3) that the publication of speculation by popular authors establishes it as fact, not speculation, 4) that UTL LiDAR research has revealed the existence of a city, 5) that LiDAR investigators have found pyramids, 6) that the legend of Ciudad Blanca refers to an actual place that will be revealed by future investigations, 7) that you are editing this article to reflect a neutral point of view when in fact that is not the the case. Note that this is just a partial list. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 22:02, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::::Your assessment of my POV is not helpful (and wrong).  Please desist.  Address the content by pointing out ''specific'' things you want changed, not the editor (my alleged POV). --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 23:37, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::::::I will be happy to desist. I would like to focus on the actual ''content'' of edits, not the individuals who are making them. As you have noted, that is the only way we will move forward. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 23:47, 19 June 2013 (UTC)

== Why it matters ==

[[User:Serendipodous]] has asked the valid and significant question of why these edits and the content of this article matters. For what it's worth, ''today'' is the one-year anniversary of the first edit to this article, which was originally created on '''8 June 2012'''. As the article itself indicates, there was increased interest in the &quot;legend&quot; of Ciudad Blanca following May 2012 press releases about [[LiDAR]] research. A second round of edits, initiated by [[User:ThaddeusB]], was undertaken following another round of media coverage following additional May 2013 press releases and Douglas Preston's ''New Yorker'' article. This Wikipedia article is not only a result of active publicity about the &quot;legend,&quot; but also runs the risk of ''actively contributing to it''. It is inappropriate for pro-legend advocates to co-opt Wikipedia as a tool for promoting a specific POV, in particular one that ''creates a legend'' by connecting elements that had not previously been connected. It is also inappropriate for skeptics of legend-related claims to use Wikipedia to co-opt it for presenting a biased POV, one that represents a rejection of claims that are not based on established facts. What matters most is maintaining [[WP:NPOV]] in ''clarifying the facts'' so that Wikipedia readers can benefit from an informative, neutral discussion. The reality is that this article is the first item to appear at the top of Google searches on &quot;Ciudad Blanca.&quot; It is therefore likely to shape future news reporting as well as scientific discourse. It must ''sustain neutrality'' while striving to be correct and informative. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 18:57, 19 June 2013 (UTC)
== Content from special series on Ciudad Blanca in ''El Heraldo'' ==

This article would benefit from content published in a [http://www.elheraldo.hn/Otras-Secciones/Especiales/ciudad_blanca/Inicio special series on Ciudad Blanca] published in the mainstream newspaper ''El Heraldo'' in Honduras last year. Although this source is in Spanish, it includes interviews with Gloria Lara Pinto, Chris Begley, myself, and a number of other individuals with expertise in the region. It is based in part on a special expedition undertaken by a team from ''El Heraldo'' to visit and document the region. Before I devote time to extracting and adding useful information from this source, are there any specific concerns? I really would like to avoid spending time adding content only to have it deleted or my edits reverted. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 00:01, 20 June 2013 (UTC)

:Can you give a brief outline of what would be added? Hard to know if anything would be objectionable without knowing what you plan to write. (No rush on an outline of course.) --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 00:11, 20 June 2013 (UTC)

::I haven't yet had time to do this. I will provide a brief summary before adding to the article. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 20:12, 21 June 2013 (UTC)

== Begley's questions ==

Why was there no discussion on the talk page before deleting the following?

Begley has posed several questions that he thinks need to be asked of anyone claiming to have found Ciudad Blanca:&lt;ref&gt;[http://mosquitia.tripod.com/id1.html Ciudad Blanca Legend]&lt;/ref&gt;
* &quot;First, which version of the legend are you using as a guide? The indigenous legends are very different from the popular versions you hear today.&quot;
* &quot;Second, what features of your discovery make you think it is THE lost city? None of the legends have any characteristics, traits, or identifying attributes of the Ciudad Blanca. How, then, can you claim to have found it? Just because it is a large site?&quot;
* &quot;Third, are you sure your 'discovery' is not already well known to locals, and possibly even archaeologists? Do you have access to a list of all documented archaeological sites in the region and are sure this is not one of those?&quot;

[[User:ThaddeusB]] has said that Begley's opinion should be stated. It is Begley's opinion that these questions need to be asked of anyone claiming to have found Ciudad Blanca. Therefore, this content should be permitted. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 02:43, 20 June 2013 (UTC)

:You boldly added them, I reverted, now we discuss.  That is the normal cycle...  The article already states that popular and indigenous version vary (point 1). The article already states that there are no defining attributes to the city and so it can't be found in any meaningful sense (point 2).   The article already talk about the numerous archeological sites claimed to be the legendary city, that it is falsely &quot;found&quot; every 10 years, etc. (point 3)  What value does quoting the three questions add? --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 02:56, 20 June 2013 (UTC)
::The principal value of these questions is that they demonstrate why archaeologists are skeptical about claims for the &quot;discovery&quot; of Ciudad Blanca, adding balance to an article that is heavily slanted with content from popular sources. The fact that these questions have been posed by Begley--the leading archaeological authority on the region--is significant. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 15:05, 20 June 2013 (UTC)
:::The gist of the comments is relevant (and is included in the article).  The precise wording of them is not important, so there is no need to quote them. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 16:35, 21 June 2013 (UTC)

== Theodore Morde and the &quot;City of the Monkey God&quot; ==
The significance of Morde's expedition remains to be demonstrated. Many of the references in this section come from an [http://news.google.com/newspapers?nid=1368&amp;dat=19400922&amp;id=yjBQAAAAIBAJ&amp;sjid=Nw0EAAAAIBAJ&amp;pg=6930,4275460 obscure and sensational 1940 article] in the tabloid ''[[The American Weekly]]'', not from scientific literature. This would be similar to featuring content from the ''[[National Enquirer]]'' or the ''[[Weekly World News]]''. It is not a reliable source, as should be evident from the illustration, context, sensational tone, and content of the article. The lack of references to Morde in subsequent academic literature suggests his work was insignificant, even though interest in it has been revived by authors such as Stewart and Preston. This material referring to Morde's &quot;City of the Monkey God&quot; should be handled as one would handle sensational reports of [[Unidentified flying object|UFO]] or [[bigfoot]] sightings. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 15:20, 20 June 2013 (UTC)
:The significance of Morde's writing is that later sources have tied it to the legend, which has clearly been demonstrated. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 17:03, 21 June 2013 (UTC)
::Yes, but some context for Morde's original statements is appropriate. As we've noted, his was not a scientific expedition nor were his accounts of it contributions to science. He was engaging in [[pseudoarchaeology]] and later sources that build upon that, if they present his work as if it were archaeology, are also pseudoarchaeological. The original context contributes to clarifying that. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 20:11, 21 June 2013 (UTC)

By the way, Morde's lurid description of the gruesome Dance of the Dead Monkeys, in which he explains how captured monkeys were impaled live on poles, roasted, and eaten (in which &quot;the medicine man thrusts the hollow bamboo through the eye of the monkey into the brain and sucks up the brain fluids), makes the sensational nature of his writing quite clear. It is also deeply offensive with respect to his descriptions of indigenous culture. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 19:03, 20 June 2013 (UTC)
:It isn't in this article, so it is unnecessary to state your opinion of it. Furthermore, being offensive is not a valid criteria for exclusion.--[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 17:03, 21 June 2013 (UTC)

Morde's 1940 allusion to how the Honduran &quot;Monkey God&quot; sounded similar to [[Hanuman]], who he likens to [[Paul Bunyan]] in that he assumed &quot;gigantic size&quot; and &quot;strode from mountain top to mountain top,&quot; seems calculated to titillate audiences familiar with the 1933 movie ''[[King_Kong_(1933_film)|King Kong]],'' in which an explorer fights his way through the jungle to discover a giant ape to whom sacrifices are made by the local savages. In fact, it seems likely his &quot;City of the Monkey God&quot; story may have been inspired directly by ''King Kong''. I realize that this is [[WP:OR]], but the connection with the legend of ''King Kong'' seems to me to be as significant as the connection with the legend of Ciudad Blanca. This would be another way that the Ciudad Blanca story derives from [[Lost World (genre)|Lost World]] references. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 19:43, 20 June 2013 (UTC)
:Your OR might be interesting, but of course has no place in the article. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 17:03, 21 June 2013 (UTC)

I think it's important to stick more closely to what the sources actually say, with direct quotations rather than paraphrase whose connotations depart from [[WP:NPOV]]. It is clear that later authors add their own [[Spin (public relations)|spin]] to the already heavily spun tales published by Morde. Accurate, ''neutral'' language should be preferred unless adequate context for alternative interpretations and embellishments is provided. Otherwise, colorful hype, tall tales, exaggeration, and speculation appear as if they were facts. This should be avoided. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 22:52, 20 June 2013 (UTC)
:Direct quote of original sources have been used where appropriate.  Paraphrase is also appropriate (and necessary for copyright reasons) at times.  Later interpretations of primary sources is also important to include at times.  I you have comments on specific parts of the article, please do share, but a general comment like this doesn't really convey what you want changed. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 17:03, 21 June 2013 (UTC)
::Thanks. I hope that my general comments provide a context for the specific edits that I've made. I agree that later interpretations must be included. As I've stated, however, I think the most important issue it to avoid making it appear as if speculative interpretations represent accepted facts when the only sources on those facts are unreliable or highly questionable. I think the best approach in those situations is to either clearly identify the source in the body of the article or to avoid including that content until the facts have been more firmly established. Citing obscure speculation can give it undeserved attention, thereby contributing to an emerging mythology rather than documenting existing legends in the fashion that an encyclopedia should.  [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 20:11, 21 June 2013 (UTC)

=== House of cards speculation ===
The questionable reliability of Morde's account means that speculations of others that build upon it are even more flimsy. I have deleted the reference tying Morde's story to ones collected by Taggart in the northern Sierra de Puebla and the Huastec region of Veracruz, Mexico as an example of speculation presented as fact. If this can be rephrased it to make it clear that this is journalist [http://www.roatanet.com/ciudadblanca/griffin.htm Wendy Griffin]'s speculation, that might make it acceptable. Otherwise, tabloid speculation is being built upon tabloid speculation to create a [[house of cards]]. It would be more solid if it could be demonstrated that Taggart, an anthropologist, recognized similarities between the stories he collected and those of Morde. Griffin also speculates about associations with Nahuehue that are not supported by other sources. It may well be Griffin's speculation in this 1998 article that results in many elements of the Ciudad Blanca &quot;legend&quot; as it emerged in the late 1990s and afterwards. Griffin's assertions should be identified in the article as her own interpretations, not as established facts. Note that Griffin was part of the [http://www.roatanet.com/ciudadblanca/ SEPH organization] assembled by Ted Maschal (a.k.a. Ted Danger) in the 1990s to search for Ciudad Blanca. If there are better references to scholarly work by Griffin on Ciudad Blanca, those could also be added with an improved discussion in the section on late 20th century exploration and speculation. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 17:51, 20 June 2013 (UTC)
:I have added attribution to Griffin as you suggested. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 17:03, 21 June 2013 (UTC)
::Thanks. I think that's a helpful edit and a reasonable compromise given Griffin's apparent role in the unfolding &quot;legend.&quot; [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 20:11, 21 June 2013 (UTC)
== Nineteenth century speculation ==

There seems to be a disagreement concerning whether sources must explicitly mention &quot;Ciudad Blanca&quot; or not to be included. Sources and links that refer to the general exploration and interpretation of ancient ruins in Central America, and especially Honduras, are directly relevant. This includes references to 19th century literature such as R. Tripp Evans' book ''[http://books.google.com/books?id=NE9xsU__mRUC&amp;printsec=frontcover&amp;source=gbs_ge_summary_r&amp;cad=0#v=onepage&amp;q&amp;f=false Romancing the Maya],'' which provides a historical context for speculation about sites in Honduras, including reference to the expeditions of Stephens and Catherwood. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 20:24, 21 June 2013 (UTC)

:I do not believe there is any reliable source connection between, for example, Lost World literature and Ciudad Blanca.  IMO, using sources that are loosely related (at best) to the region to draw the connection is a form of original research. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 17:48, 24 June 2013 (UTC)

::I'm not sure what you mean by &quot;loosely related (at best) to the region.&quot; Evans' book refers specifically the exploration for ancient ruins in Mexico and Central America. Are you saying it would have to refer even more specifically to eastern Honduras in order for there to be connection? Or that it would have to specifically mention the words &quot;Ciudad Blanca&quot; (or even &quot;City of the Monkey God&quot;)? The current Wikipedia entry on [[Lost World (genre)|Lost World]] literature specifically notes, &quot;The genre has similar themes to 'mythical kingdoms', such as [[El Dorado]].&quot; Ciudad Blanca certainly qualifies. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 18:10, 26 June 2013 (UTC)
:::I think we have a policy dilemma here. It seems obvious to me that Ciudad Blanca speculations have both been based in and kept alive by the genre of lost world literature and its romanticizing way of approaching Mesoamerican history and archeology. However, if Tripp Evans' book doesn't mention Ciudad Blanca then that does suggest that including it is SYNTH. However, in another way the fact that it ''doesn't'' mention it is at least circumstantial evidence to suggest that the &quot;legend&quot; is very new and not based in a deeper tradition. Which in turn supports the concern that we should be extremely careful not to reify the idea that there is a ciudad blanca legend.[[User talk:Maunus|User:Maunus ·ʍaunus·snunɐw·]] 18:34, 26 June 2013 (UTC)
::::I think you've hit on something important here. That is, the Ciudad Blanca &quot;legend&quot; is one that is so recent as to not have been a topic of discussion in authoritative sources concerning fantasies and romanticizations about Pre-Columbian cultures even though many such analyses exist, among them [[Robert Wauchope (archaeologist)|Robert Wauchope]]'s classic ''Lost Tribea and Sunken Continents: Myth and Method in the Study of American Indians'' (1962) and R. Tripp Evans' more recent book. Despite what has been claimed, it is not at all clear that the early comments by Cortes refer to Ciudad Blanca. (His geographic statements refer to a broad section of central Honduras, not specifically the area where Ciudad Blanca has been claimed to exist.) The reference provided here (''Frommer's'') for comments about a &quot;white city&quot; by Cristóbal de Pedraza in 1544 is utterly inadequate and frankly not credible. Mention of a &quot;White City&quot; ''may'' be traced to comments by Lindbergh in 1927, but that's not clear, either. It seems entirely possible that the &quot;legend&quot; of Ciudad Blanca dates mostly to wishful thinking and heavy promotion (some of it focused on documentary filmmaking) in the 1990s, followed by very recent (early 2000s) revived interest in the unreliable and highly sensational stories by Theodore Morde--ones for which there is no evidence that they were taken seriously even in the 1940s. I think you're right. We should be extremely careful and circumspect about the role Wikipedia can play in reifying assertions that there is a &quot;legend&quot; of Ciudad Blanca that is not a recent invention. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 18:03, 27 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::I keep meaning to comment and get distracted (partially by another older legend with some similar problems). We need to be careful about relating sources to the subject of the article. Normally sources should discuss the actual subject, but in some cases it's hard to discuss the subject without background - or perhaps I should say context. Context is almost always important, and there is a context here which needs to be in the article. We also, as I hope we all agree, need to make sure that Wikipedia doesn't aid in creating an 'old' legend. This means in turn that we have to be very careful about our sources (I'm against using travel books as sources for history, by the way). I've got something to say about that below. [[User:Dougweller|Dougweller]] ([[User talk:Dougweller|talk]]) 20:51, 28 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::::I agree with Doug here. Travel literature and &quot;Explorer Foundations&quot; are specifically in the business of creating legends for monetary gain. They are not reliable sources for this kind of topic and should be avoided unless they are clearly and unequivocally notable in which case their views can be attributed to them directly. Frommer's mention is not notable.[[User talk:Maunus|User:Maunus ·ʍaunus·snunɐw·]] 19:04, 30 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::::To clarify, Frommers was used to source claims of the legend being old. I think it is an excellent example of the kind of speculation of later sources. If you want to debunk the oldness of the legend, I think it is much better to include examples of modern attempts to tie the legend into older things and explain that the older source doesn't actually say &quot;ciudad blanca&quot; rather than simply deleting such references entirely. Censoring any mention of such claims is unlikely to educate the reader that the claims are nonsense, rather they will simply think Wikipedia was unaware of them.--[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 19:09, 30 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::::::And Frommer's is not a reliable source for the age of the legend. Or for anything else regarding the legend. We don't want to debunk anything since that would be OR at this point. But we also don't want to pass on non-notable unreliable claims about the legend as fact. Exclusion semi-notable and non-notable claims and claims of dubious reliability is the best way to avoid both OR and misleading the readers. IN the absence of peer reviewed scholarly papers that relate the legend, the sources and the archeology of Honduras we simply have no basis for writing about any relation between reality and the claims about the legend. If the research and claims were scientifically well supported we would expect articles in scholarly journals - not just on personal websites and from the tourist industry.[[User talk:Maunus|User:Maunus ·ʍaunus·snunɐw·]] 19:19, 30 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::::::If we are limited to what scholars say in journals, then we can't say a single word on the legend.  Of course truth is not limited to scholarly journals and Wikipedia policy quite clearly allows the use of other sources.  Reliable (but not scholarly) sources that have made a connection between Pedraza and the legend are certainly valid sources for a statement saying such connections exist.  There is no doubt the Pedraza made the &quot;plates of gold&quot; statement - the only doubt is whether it is connected to the legend.  We know for a fact that people have made this connection.  If we are interested in conveying truth, it would be far more informative to mention the connection has been made but also include Pedraza's actual words so that the reader can decide if the connection is valid or not. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 01:00, 1 July 2013 (UTC)
:::::::::::::Yes, for certain kinds of claims it requires a peer reviewed publication to establish that it is more than loose conjecture and advertising strategies. The connection to Pedraza is only notable and significant if it is made by someone who's interpretation of Pedraza is notable and reliable. That is the only way to avoid making pseudoscientific or crackpot claims into the basis for articles. [[User talk:Maunus|User:Maunus ·ʍaunus·snunɐw·]] 01:37, 1 July 2013 (UTC)
::::::::::::::OK, But if we can't say Pedraza is connected then we ''surely'' can't say Lost World literature is connected.  Not even non-scholars have made that connection.  As far as I know, the one and only place the connection is made is this Wikipedia article. (And no, I don't think it is at all obvious that English language fiction written in America is related to the development of a legend in Spanish speaking Honduras.) --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 05:36, 2 July 2013 (UTC)
==Pedraza==
*[http://cdigital.dgb.uanl.mx/la/1080028141_C/1080028141_T11/1080028141_47.pdf][http://cdigital.dgb.uanl.mx/la/1080028141_C/1080028141_T11/1080028141_48.pdf]
[http://cdigital.dgb.uanl.mx/la/1080028141_C/1080028141_T11/1080028141_49.pdf] This last one seems to be the relevant one. ON pages 407-9 he describes a trip to a prosperous place that he diodn't know before called &quot;tagiusgualpa&quot; by the natives. He describes it as a place with gold and a gold foundry.
:Note that the [[toponym]] he used was subsequently adopted for [[Tegucigalpa]], the capital of Honduras, which is located in central Honduras and not anywhere near Mosquitia (in eastern Honduras). No gold or gold foundry has been identified in either place and there is no evidence that Precolumbian goldwork was significant anywhere in Honduras (as it is in Costa Rica, Panama, and Colombia). [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 06:38, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
*[http://cdigital.dgb.uanl.mx/la/1080028141_C/1080028141_T11/1080028141_50.pdf][http://cdigital.dgb.uanl.mx/la/1080028141_C/1080028141_T11/1080028141_51.pdf] (Here he describes how Cortes got news of Honduras and sent Cristobal de Olid to conquer it. No mentions of a white city, or any particular city of the many cities in the area that was conquered.)
*[http://cdigital.dgb.uanl.mx/la/1080028141_C/1080028141_T11/1080028141_52.pdf]. 

Ok, I dind't read this in its entirity. But here it is for anyone interested in knowing what Pedraza wrote.[[User talk:Maunus|User:Maunus ·ʍaunus·snunɐw·]] 18:58, 30 June 2013 (UTC)
:Thanks. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 06:38, 12 July 2013 (UTC)

*It seems to me that the most we can say is that X scholar &quot;interpreted Pedraza's statement as a possible reference&quot; to a lost city or whatever.[[User talk:Maunus|User:Maunus ·ʍaunus·snunɐw·]] 19:01, 30 June 2013 (UTC)
:Yes. It is the imaginative (and often sensational) ''interpretation'' of sources such as Pedraza that has contributed to the relatively recent hype about a &quot;lost city&quot; even when ''no city was ever mentioned''. That is why it is important to identify the individuals making subjective interpretations and not present those highly subjective interpretations as if they were objective, established facts. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 06:41, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
== UTL section ==

I have removed the following sentence form the start of the UTL section

*For the May 6, 2013 issue, in an article whose title alluded to the search for [[El Dorado]], author [[Douglas Preston]] published a popular account in ''[[The New Yorker]]'' magazine about documentary film maker Steve Elkins' quest for Ciudad Blanca.

The justification for the sentence in question was that the article (allegedly) influenced this article.  That is an insufficient reason for giving so much weight to a source which in reality likely played almost no role in shaping the legend.  (The events described in the section happened from 2009-12 and were largely documented in the popular media before said article came out.)  --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 22:31, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
:The sentence you have deleted is clearly a factual, correct statement. That is patently apparent. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 00:37, 13 July 2013 (UTC)
:The fact that the article in question (reference #1) is still cited '''42 times''' (down from &gt; 50) is evidence in support of the assertion that it had and continues to have an excessively disproportionate influence on this Wikipedia article. The issue is not that the source played a role in shaping the legend, but that this strongly biased Wikipedia article contributes to reifying and promoting the alleged &quot;legend.&quot; If there are significant events that were documented in popular media, then those sources should be provided with appropriate context. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 00:37, 13 July 2013 (UTC)
:The sentence that has been deleted from the UTL section should be restored because it provides a necessary context that explains why this particular project (and the ''New Yorker'' article about it) is featured so prominently in this article. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 00:40, 13 July 2013 (UTC)
::Again, if your only justification for the sentence's inclusion is this article's use of the source, you have no ground to stand on.  We most certainly don't make statements that imply source X is the main/only source of Y information because our article uses it for said information. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 06:15, 13 July 2013 (UTC)
:::Looking at this now, I can't understand the argument for removing it. It's clearly relevant. Of course, I've said that I think the article relies on Preston too much, but that's a different issue. If his article is really unimportant, we shouldn't be using it as a source. But the bottomline is that it's a fact and aids the reader. [[User:Dougweller|Dougweller]] ([[User talk:Dougweller|talk]]) 20:43, 13 July 2013 (UTC)
::::Um, how does putting a 2013 article before events that began in 2009 (implying said article is only source of the following information) make perfect sense?  Your argument makes no sense - do we normally say &quot;X wrote about Y&quot; just because we used X as a source?  Of course we do not.  There is absolutely no requirement that a source be important to subject X to be used as a source of for article X.  Indeed, what would that even mean for a topic such as lions?  Is Wozencraft's article &quot;Order Carnivora&quot; (the first source in the article) important to the existence of lions?  Of course it is not.  Nor is there a line in that article that says &quot;In 2005, Wozencraft wrote an article &quot;Order Carnivora&quot; that included information about lions.
::::So what exactly is the justification for opening a section of information by saying someone wrote about X (one of about 300 people who did so in this case)?  The only justification offered is that the article in question was used as a source of this article, which is not a valid argument. If its &quot;clearly relevant&quot; then surely there is a justification beyond the article was used as a source for this article.  What is important here is the UTL project, not Preston's article about the UTL project.  It existed (and was in the news) for more than a year before Preston wrote about it.  Some of the information was even in this very article before Preston wrote about.   --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 02:39, 15 July 2013 (UTC)
:::::The bottom line is that it's a fact and aids the reader. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 17:03, 18 July 2013 (UTC)
::::::No the bottom line is that no justification has been proved for singling out this one source while not mentioning the 300+ other news sources.  --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 18:02, 18 July 2013 (UTC)
:::::::Well yes, there is. It should be obvious from the References section for this article that Preston's (reference #1) has been cited ''far'' more than any other (currently '''&gt;40 times''', but it used to be &gt;50). As I've noted, earlier versions of this Wikipedia article contained significant paraphrase and direct quotations from Preston's article, even to the extent that it may have represented an ethical and perhaps even legal violation of standards concerning intellectual property and copyright. This article cited details that had been assembled by Preston concerning the UTL project, its history, funding, permitting, and results that were not to be found in any other source. It also reproduced assertions that had come directly from Preston as if they were facts. The reason why it should be singled out, rather than the &quot;300+ others&quot; is because the vast majority of those latter were just duplicates of information from press releases and wire service reports. Relatively few contained any original information and even those that did were not always reliable. The story produced a media flurry in May 2013, which was followed by extensive editing of this article in response to ''media'' activity, not the generation of new ''information'' or ''facts''. Numbers such as &quot;300+&quot; are meaningless, since they simply represent how many news sources picked up on the story in one way or another. 1000+ sources are generated anytime [[Kim Kardashian]] [[fart|farts]]. That does not mean that this information is in any way notable, significant, accurate, or reliable. I think this article is flawed because of its heavy reliance on popular news sources rather than scientific publications. If Wikipedia held to a standard requiring the latter, this article would be very short indeed. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 00:24, 19 July 2013 (UTC)
:::::::::Once again, you have provided no evidence that Preston's article influenced the real world in any way.  Being used here proves nothing beyond that ''I'' (one person) considered it to be a useful source.  My use of the source to write (part of) this article is not a notable part of the lengend's history.
:::::::::Once again, you have provided no scientific sources to replace the popular ones.  Complaining about the article's supposed flaws does not provide any insight as to how to improve it. There is NO requirement whatsoever that articles must be based only on peer reviewed journal articles.  If there are such sources, they are preferable, but if there aren't any there is nothing wrong with writing an article using the available sources. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 21:13, 24 July 2013 (UTC)
:::::::::::As a matter of fact, there actually ''is'' something wrong with writing an article using available sources if those sources are biased and unreliable. Given the passage of a year, it would be good to incorporate some updates on the UTL project. Has anything helpful been published yet? [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 21:54, 16 June 2014 (UTC)
== Misleading or inaccurate statements in Preston's article &quot;The El Dorado Machine&quot; (May 2013) ==
Revision of this Wikipedia article in May and June 2013 has relied heavily upon an article by [[Douglas Preston]] that appeared in the May 6, 2013 issue of ''[[The New Yorker]].'' As has been mentioned earlier on the talk page, Preston's article--currently the most frequently cited source for this Wikipedia article--contains a number of misleading or inaccurateof an statements. This section is for pointing out and discussing them as they may affect the content of the Wikipedia article. Note that the heavy reliance upon this one source creates a situation in which this Wikipedia article runs the risk of perpetuating rather than simply documenting the asserted &quot;legend.&quot; [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 19:59, 27 June 2013 (UTC)

* The title of Preston's article, with its clear reference to [[El Dorado]], conflates Ciudad Blanca with this other place. The title's reference to a &quot;machine&quot; seems to allude to the use of LiDAR to find ancient gold, something never mentioned in the article itself. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 19:59, 27 June 2013 (UTC)
:This objection is nonsense.  He in no way makes any claim of finding gold anywhere in the article. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 18:57, 30 June 2013 (UTC)
::It is ''not'' nonsense. You're right, he doesn't. However, '''the ''title'' of his article''' refers to '''[[El Dorado]]''' (which is traditionally interpreted as &quot;the golden one&quot; or even &quot;the golden city.&quot;) Do you really not know what El Dorado implies? ''Dorado'' means '''&quot;golden&quot;''' and the implication of an &quot;El Dorado machine&quot; is that it is for finding '''gold'''! [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 06:22, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
:::FYI, writers rarely chose the title of their articles.  That is usually done by the editor. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 15:29, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
::::Who chose the title is irrelevant. The fact is that the title of Preston's article implies the use of LiDAR to find gold. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 22:27, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
:::::In your mind only.  The article article never once makes any such claim. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 22:46, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
::::::It is the clear implication of the title. To what do ''you'' think &quot;The El Dorado Machine&quot; refers? What else could it possibly mean? Why is there any mention of El Dorado at all? [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 01:12, 13 July 2013 (UTC)
:::::::Most likely it is referring to you know the famous &quot;lost city&quot; aspect considering that is what the article is about.  --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 06:43, 13 July 2013 (UTC)
::::::::Yes, the famous &quot;lost city '''of gold'''&quot;. The fact that so many mass media reports mention gold is a fairly good indication that this has been a common interpretation. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 23:58, 8 January 2014 (UTC)

* Preston writes, &quot;Nevertheless, for nearly a century, archeologists and adventurers have plunged into the region, in search of the ruins of an ancient city, built of white stone, called la Ciudad Blanca, the White City.&quot; This statement is inaccurate for a couple of reasons. For one, an expedition to search for a &quot;city&quot; was not undertaken by Morde until 1940, so it has not been &quot;for nearly a century&quot; but only for about 73 years. For another, the assertion that there was a search for a city &quot;built of white stone.&quot; The assumption that it was built of white stone is just one of several possible interpretations. Did this interpretation come from Lindbergh's remarks in 1927? (I have been able to find no earlier references.) As Gordon Willey pointed out, one possible explanation is that what was reported (by Lindbergh?) was actually a mistaken interpretation of limestone cliffs. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 19:59, 27 June 2013 (UTC)
:People went searching for it before Morde.  He was simply the first American to claim to find it.  Archeologists mentioned it was a &quot;reputed ruin&quot; in the 1920s that people had been searching for.  ~90 years is indeed &quot;nearly a century&quot;. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 18:57, 30 June 2013 (UTC)
::Who went searching for it before Morde? If that's true, then you must provide reliable sources. ''Which'' archaeologists mentioned it was a &quot;reputed ruin&quot; prior to Lindbergh's 1927 claim? If so, what are the sources? The data I've seen suggests that it was Lindbergh who started a [[wild-goose chase]], one that actually does not appear to have had the participation of professional archaeologists until recently. If you are making claims, you must back them up with reliable sources. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 06:07, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
:::Your original research (re: Lindberg starting it) does not belong in the article any more than mine does. I no longer have the source in front of me, but someone definitely wrote about it in 1925.
::::It is not my original research. I have cited a source for it. If you have a source indicating that &quot;someone definitely wrote about it in 1925&quot; then provide it. Without a reliable and credible source, you should not make that statement. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 22:13, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
:::::It is your original research to assert he started it.  In fact, you provided a source to say he DIDN'T make any such claim. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 22:46, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
::::::The exact wording in the source that I cited is, &quot;So far as I know, Lindbergh’s 1927 claim is where many believe the name Ciudad Blanca comes from, but even this isn’t certain since this legend saw print only in the 1950s, some three decades after the fact.&quot; I will add that to the article. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 01:04, 13 July 2013 (UTC)

* Citing Cortés' letter to Charles V, Preston writes, &quot;Rumors of the site's existence date back at least to 1526...&quot; In fact, Cortés' letter made vague reference to &quot;a province&quot; and not a specific site (much less Ciudad Blanca). His geographic description of the &quot;province&quot; was also vague. Cortés never mentioned a ''ciudad blanca,'' or even a city, but referred only to &quot;towns and villages.&quot; [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 19:59, 27 June 2013 (UTC)
:Almost every source, including Begley, includes this. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 18:57, 30 June 2013 (UTC)
::So what? Incorrect information often becomes &quot;accepted&quot; simply through repetition. Cortés did not make reference to a specific site, much less a &quot;city,&quot; but to &quot;towns and villages&quot; in a large and unspecified &quot;province&quot; that is identified only as being an approximate distance (with the direction not indicated) from Trujillo. Look at the source and you'll see. The point is that '''Preston got it wrong.''' [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 06:07, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
:::Whether you believe it is correct or not is not relevant.  That fact is many people believe it to be the same thing.  (I think it is clear from the actually language that the connection is very doubtful, but my interpretation does not belong in the article, nor does yours.) --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 15:29, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
::::If, in fact, those &quot;many people&quot; who &quot;believe it to be the same thing&quot; are credible and reliable sources, then you must cite them. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 22:34, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
:::::They have been, multiple times. You have chosen to ignore them. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 22:46, 12 July 2013 (UTC)

* Preston asserts, &quot;Researchers have since determined that, beginning around 250 B.C., much of Mesoamerica south of Mexico had been dominated by the Maya civilization, which held sway until its mysterious collapse, in the tenth century.&quot; I think most professional Mesoamericanists and Maya specialists would have problems with this sentence. The selection of a &quot;beginning around 250 B.C.&quot; seems totally arbitrary given that Maya culture in the region goes back much farther than that (to about 1500 B.C. at least). &quot;Mesoamerica south of Mexico&quot; really doesn't make much sense when referring to the Mayas, since Maya culture was also prevalent in Chiapas, Campeche, Yucatan, and Quintana Roo, all of which are part of Mexico. The &quot;mysterious collapse&quot; is no longer so mysterious and saying that the Mayas &quot;held sway&quot; until the tenth century also makes no sense, since Maya domination continued until the arrival of the Spanish and afterwards. Statements such as this don't inspire much confidence in Preston's understanding of what researchers have actually determined. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 19:59, 27 June 2013 (UTC)

* Preston writes, &quot;The regions east and south of Copán were inhabited by peoples whom early scholars considered more 'primitive' and less interesting, and the jungles were so dense, and the conditions so dangerous, that little exploration was done.&quot; It's impossible to know which &quot;early scholars&quot; he has in mind, but the claim that they considered those people &quot;more 'primitive'&quot; doesn't resonate with the terminology of Mesoamerican scholarship. It's also hard to known to when he's referring about when it was that &quot;little exploration was done.&quot; In fact, the regions east and south of Copán, such as the Gulf of Honduras, the Bay Islands, the northeastern coast of Honduras, the Sula/Ulua Valley, Lake Yojoa, and the Comayagua Valley as well as both western and eastern El Salvador were actually all explored in the early 20th century (and many of these areas long before that). Copán is in far western Honduras. Preston's statement implies that central, southern, and eastern Honduras all remained ''tierra incognita'', which is quite far from the truth. If one wants to go even farther &quot;east and south of Copán&quot; into Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Panama, there was quite a bit of exploration in those areas, too. Mesoamerica is ''not'' all that was known (or considered something other than &quot;primitive.&quot;) [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 19:59, 27 June 2013 (UTC)
:It would be a mistake to assume 2013 political correctness was practiced by 1850s scholars, so your objection is pure speculation on your part. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 01:33, 1 July 2013 (UTC)
::Not at all. Neither Preston nor you provide sources to indicate who the &quot;early scholars&quot; were, when they wrote, or who they considered to be &quot;more 'primitive' and less interesting.&quot; It's not an issue of &quot;political correctness&quot; but of facts. Sources are required and it is Preston's unsupported statements that remain pure speculation (and probably even outright error). [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 06:07, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
:::Wrong.  By Wikipedia policy, we can take reliable sources at their word.  The fact that you want more information does not make the information provided unreliable. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 15:29, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
::::I have provided plenty of evidence that the source is not reliable. It is contrary to Wikipedia policy to rely upon an unreliable source. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 22:28, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
:::::The only thing you have provided plenty of evidence for is that you think your own opinion is fact.  You start this section as &quot;evidence&quot; as inaccuracies, said it seems &quot;unlikely&quot; to you, decided it was therefore false, and therefore proved the article is unreliable and we can't trust it.  Nice circular argument. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 22:46, 12 July 2013 (UTC) 

* Preston asserts that, &quot;By the twentieth century, these legends had been fused into a single site, la Ciudad Blanca, sometimes referred to as the Lost City of the Monkey God.&quot; The implication of &quot;by the twentieth century&quot; is &quot;by 1900,&quot; which is incorrect. In fact, the evidence that &quot;these legends&quot; existed prior to 1930s is minimal and the earliest reference to a &quot;white city&quot; seems to be 1927. In this statement, Preston also conflates Ciudad Blanca with the City of the Monkey God when the association between the two actually appears to be very recent (with the revival of interest in Morde's work by Wendy Griffin in the late 1990s). [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 19:59, 27 June 2013 (UTC)
:Your understanding of English is incorrect.  The phrase in question does not mean by 1900.  You are also incorrect about the earliest reference comment.  It was mentioned in a 1925 archeological survey (complete with a story about it a supposed discovery) at the very least.--[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 18:57, 30 June 2013 (UTC)
::Sorry. My understanding of English is fine. It is ''you'' who are incorrect. The phrase &quot;by the twentieth century&quot; means &quot;by 1900&quot; just as &quot;by the twenty-first century&quot; means &quot;by 2000.&quot; &quot;By the twentieth century&quot; actually means &quot;by ''the time'' the twentieth century ''had begun''&quot;, i.e. '''by 1900'''. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 07:20, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
:::No it doesn't.  It means by sometime in the 20th century by common usage. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 15:29, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
::::No, it doesn't. You are wrong. It does ''not'' mean &quot;sometime in the 20th century&quot; by &quot;common usage.&quot; Do you have a source for that? Just believing it doesn't make it so. You are mistaken and I challenge you to provide evidence that you are not. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 22:16, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
:::::You have provided no evidence that the statement is wrong, which is what you are trying to do.  I've told you the sentence does not mean what you think it does ''to me'', which is sufficient evidence that it does not mean what you think it does to everyone and therefore your understand of the phrase may not be what Preston had in mind.  --22:46, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
::::::This is exactly what I mean when I assert that you are inserting your own subjective reality into this article. I have not said that it means the same thing to everyone. My point is about its correct usage, not your own incorrect usage. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 01:10, 13 July 2013 (UTC)
:::::::You say it doesn't mean the same thing to everyone, but also only your usage is correct. I think you've proven my point about your substituting your opinion for fact for me. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 06:43, 13 July 2013 (UTC)
::::::::The issue of being correct is important, but in this case it is also important to seek clarity rather than obfuscation. Your phraseology is ambivalent and confusing. If you don't intend to mean &quot;by 1900,&quot; but rather &quot;sometime in the 20th century,&quot; you should choose the clearest language possible. You have not done that. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 17:29, 18 July 2013 (UTC)

* Preston refers to Theodore Morde but fails to place his claims in context. It should be clear from Morde's own writing that it was filled with fantastic tales and wild speculation. Preston makes no mention Morde's lurid descriptions, his insulting descriptions of indigenous people, his assertions of connections between Honduras and India, or the fact that Morde was publishing this not in the ''New York Times'' but in ''The American Weekly,'' a tabloid Sunday supplement. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 19:59, 27 June 2013 (UTC)
:The non-senstational claims (the ones Preston mentions) also appeared in reliable sources such the NY Times.  Perhaps he didn't mention the sensational claims specifically because he discounted them.  Just ebcause he doesn't mention sometime you would have in no way undermines his credibility. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 18:57, 30 June 2013 (UTC)
::The claims about Morde published by the ''New York Times'' actually ''were'' sensational. He claimed to have found something spectacular for which he never provided any credible evidence. That's the definition of a sensational claim. It is actually his utter lack of evidence as well as his absurd story in a Sunday magazine tabloid that undermines Morde's credibility [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 06:07, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
:::If the claims are obviously sensational (as you state), then not explicitly saying they are sensational in no way undermines ones credibility.  You can't have it both ways. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 15:29, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
::::Wrong. If the claims are obviously sensational (and highly questionable) and a source treats them as fact, that undermines the credibility of the source, whether it is the NYT or Preston. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 22:24, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
:::::You asserting as such doesn't make it true.  If the claims are obviously sensational, then they are obviously sensational.  Not using the word &quot;sensational&quot; doesn't mean the person treated the claim as fact. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 22:46, 12 July 2013 (UTC)

* Lest readers be confused, Preston's quote of George Hasemann's speculation that Mosquitia might have been &quot;dominated by a huge '''primate''' center that hasn't been found yet&quot; (emphasis added) is ''not'' a reference to the &quot;City of the '''Monkey''' God.&quot; The term &quot;primate center&quot; in archaeology has nothing to do with monkeys! [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 19:59, 27 June 2013 (UTC)
:I'm quite sure Preston is well aware of the meaning of primate. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 18:57, 30 June 2013 (UTC)
::How are you sure? That is pure speculation on your part. If Preston was well aware of it, then he was irresponsible in not explaining a non-standard, technical use of the term to his readership, who were likely to be confused about references to a monkey god and a primate center. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 06:07, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
:::The quote isn't from Preston's article, so the whole discussion is pointless. He certainly had no responsibility to explaina  quote he didn't use! --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 15:29, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
::::You are wrong. The full quote from Preston's article (at the bottom of the left column on page 35 of ''The New Yorker,'' May 6, 2013) reads: &quot;In a 1994 interview, he speculated that the sites he had seen in Mosquitia might have been part of a single political system 'dominated by a huge primate center that hasn't been found yet,' which could be the White City.&quot; Note that it is Preston's speculation, not Hasemann's, that it &quot;could be the White City.&quot; [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 22:24, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
:::::OK my mistake, but again not explaining something you would have in no way proves he made an error. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 06:43, 13 July 2013 (UTC)
::::::One error would be Preston's assertion that what Hasemann was suggesting &quot;could be the White City&quot; give that &quot;the White City&quot; remains undefined and unlikely to exist. However, my main use of this example was to suggest that Preston was misleading. Having discussed the &quot;City of the Monkey God,&quot; he should have clarified for his readers regarding Hasemann's non-standard use of the phrase &quot;huge primate center.&quot; Many people may have made either conscious or unconscious associations with [[King Kong]] who, for the record, was no monkey. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 17:25, 18 July 2013 (UTC)

I will add more comments to this section as I find the time. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 19:59, 27 June 2013(UTC)

:This is something I'm kicking myself for not mentioning earlier. I was really amazed to see how many references there were to this one article - it gives the impression that we think it's the cat's pajamas. I like Preston's books - I've read or listened to almost all of them and just download the latest short story yesterday. But as a source for this article? Why are we using him? Because he wrote Cities of Gold, a book we don't use in related articles - maybe because it seems to lack enough or any references? He's not an expert on the subject or its context, he makes vague claims that are hard to check, and John's detailed a lot of the problems above. My plan was to remove him entirely but I decided that given the discussions and disagreements about the article that would have been too bold. I still think it's a good idea. [[User:Dougweller|Dougweller]] ([[User talk:Dougweller|talk]]) 21:05, 28 June 2013 (UTC)

::Why is Preston being cited? Because one editor of this article apparently liked Preston's so much that he undertook an extensive paraphrase, including a great deal of content from that one source. I don't think that was good Wikipedia practice and have said so repeatedly in my comments on the talk pages of this article and that editor. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 22:44, 28 June 2013 (UTC)

:::Again, I have explained my reasons MULTIPLE times - it is the best and most comprehensive source on the UTL project, which is what it was used for.  I am really sick of you making up bullshit and about how I fell in love with the article.  Bullshit that I have explicitly denied numerous times.  I would have added numerous other sources had I not grown tired of the constant edit wars and given up. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 18:57, 30 June 2013 (UTC)
::::If you in fact have numerous other good sources then adding them might have prevented the edit warring.[[User talk:Maunus|User:Maunus ·ʍaunus·snunɐw·]] 19:08, 30 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::The edit warring was over trivial word differences, so I fail to see how unrelated expansion of the article would have solved anything. --19:21, 30 June 2013 (UTC)
::::::In any case withholding numerous sources could not be in the interest of the quality of the article, if thy exist they should of course be included.[[User talk:Maunus|User:Maunus ·ʍaunus·snunɐw·]] 19:23, 30 June 2013 (UTC)
:::::::Yes. The main issue with this article concerns the use of ''reliable'' sources. [[User:ThaddeusB]] has relied far too heavily on one moderately unreliable source (the article by [[Douglas Preston]] in ''[[The New Yorker]]'', which was originally cited ''more than 50 times'' not only in one section but ''throughout the article''), as well as completely unreliable sources such as a ''Frommer's'' travel guide. The reason why there are not more and better sources is that most of the &quot;legend&quot; of Ciudad Blanca is quite recent (late 1990s) and has been promoted by filmmakers and authors seeking to profit from hype and sensation. ''Wikipedia should not be contributing to rumors or hype.'' [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 06:22, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
::::::::There you go again, attacking my credibility instead of sticking to discussing the article.  Sad.  --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 15:29, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
::::::The edit warring was '''not'' over &quot;trivial word differences&quot; but matters of fact and substance. If anyone doubts that, they can read the archives of this talk page as well as the relevant discussion on [[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]. That editor's behavior with respect to this article has been totally inappropriate. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 06:22, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
::::::::If you can't see how trivial the difference were, the situation is hopeless.  You will continue to edit war ad nauseum over nothing. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 15:29, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
:::::::::Your dismissal of my legitimate concerns, now backed by at least three other editors, has been invalidated. Your ''ad hominem'' attacks (dismissing my perspective as &quot;hopeless&quot; is insulting and unhelpful). [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 22:32, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
::::::::::Your wording that about how the qualifications of Fisher should be described most certainly has not been back by at least three editors.  And that is what we edit warred over.  If you truly think there is a huge difference bewteen the two version, the situation is indeed hopeless.  (And for the record, the other editors most certainly did not agree with you on all - or even very many - of your points.  Most weren't even commented on, and at least two were explicity disagreed with, so how you inferred agreement from 3 editors on every point is beyond me. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 22:52, 12 July 2013 (UTC)

{{od}}An extensive paraphrase would probably be a violation of our copyvio policy. Using him 42 times seems very dubious. We can use him for actual quotations such as Rosemary Joyce perhaps, but 42 citations? If there are no alternative sources, perhaps that means the material being cited to Preston shouldn't be in the article. [[User:Dougweller|Dougweller]] ([[User talk:Dougweller|talk]]) 21:03, 30 June 2013 (UTC)
::First of all, I assure you it is not a close paraphrase despite Hoopes' unsubstantiated claims to the contrary.  Also, don't jump to conclusions based on the # of cites - it is a poor measure of how much material is actually supported.  A single citation can support a whole paragraph or a few words from a sentence with multiple citation.  In the case of Preston, the later is quite common.  Finally, the reason for the use of Preston have been explained in great detail on this page multiple times.  In short, he had direct access to the UTL project, wrote the most detailed description of it, and made demonstrably far fewer errors than alternate sources on the subject (i.e. news reports).  The amount of material outside the UTL section that relies exclusively on his article is very low.  In total it probably supports 15% of the article, most of which is the UTL section.  --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 01:06, 1 July 2013 (UTC)
:::My own reading of the original article by Preston indicates that it actually ''is'' a close paraphrase. So close, in fact, that I think the original version may well have violated Wikipedia's copyright policy. I feel confident that Preston or ''The New Yorker'' would have been uncomfortable with how much of the article's content (still hidden to non-subscribers behind a [[paywall]]) was made available on Wikipedia shortly after its publication. (I would be happy to query the editorial staff of ''The New Yorker'' about this on behalf of Wikipedia.) As I have tried to make clear in the discussions here, [[Douglas Preston|Preston]]--best known for his &quot;techno-thriller&quot; and horror fiction--is hardly the reliable source that [[User:ThaddeusB]] claims him to be. The fact that he made &quot;far fewer errors than alternate sources&quot; hardly inspires confidence given the remarks about a &quot;lost city of gold&quot; and other howlers in mass media. Making fewer errors than, for example, ''The History Channel'' does not imply that the information is reliable. Wikipedia editors should not be contributing to profitable hype and speculation that is not based on sound, objective, scientific, and scholarly sources. The amount of attention given in this article to a lurid tabloid piece by Morde and a sensational piece by Preston has been inappropriate. This has been reduced through editing, but it is progress that has been extraordinarily difficult to achieve due to the intractability of one editor. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 05:49, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
::::Again, if you have better sources (about UTL), please provide them.  What you think is undue weight on Morde and UTL is actually very appropriate.  Why? Because that is what third party sources have concentrated on.  As much as you may not like it, we do not determine what is appropriate to cover - our sources do.  Our mission is report what reliable sources say in proportion to the # that talk about X.  Our mission is not to promote anything, but it is also not to fight against the promotion of anything.  Taking a position of any kind (e.g. &quot;this is all hype&quot;) is not appropriate. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 15:29, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
:::::of course &quot;the sources&quot; do when there is undue emphasis on content from a ''single source''. Remove the content taken from Preston's article and a significant amount of the content of this article would not exist. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 22:11, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
::::::Again, you have failed to provide any better/alternate sources.  Also your assertion that my analysis is based on a single source is false as I have told you over a dozen times.  Please stop this nonsense accusation of bad faith and/or ignorance.  Your obsession with ''me'' (as opposed to the article content) is unhealthy. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 22:35, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
:::::::The number of citations of Preston's article is evidence of excessive reliance upon that single source. Anyone can see that. At least one other editor has even said so in this discussion. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 22:38, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
::::And again, please stop attacking me.  Your insistence on attacking me (and my retorts) is what has made this whole process &quot;extraordinarily difficult&quot; not my stubbornness.  (And if you want to go there, you have been far more &quot;intractable&quot; than me - for example, writing page after page about a dispute over 1 sentence until you got your way because no one cared enough to continue the dispute.) --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 15:29, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
:::::What has made this whole process extraordinarily difficult is your insistence upon heavy reliance on a limited number of questionable sources. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 22:24, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
::::::Again, you have failed to provide any better/alternate sources. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 22:35, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
:::::::There is a dearth of &quot;better&quot; sources because the &quot;legend&quot; is a recent invention that has rarely been taken seriously by anyone other than unreliable sources! That is one of my principal complaints about this article. It is actively promoting a topic for which serious and reliable and well-informed discussion barely exists. In so doing, it is ''contributing'' to the &quot;legend,&quot; not documenting it. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 22:42, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
::::::::Finally, you admit there aren't better sources.  So what ''do'' you suggest we do?  Complaining about the sources is not helpful and original research is out of the question. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 22:54, 12 July 2013 (UTC)
:::::::::One suggestion would be to ''delete the entire article.'' That would prevent it from contributing to the legend, something it is no doubt doing as a detailed (albeit problematic), ubiquitously available, free resource that is available worldwide. However, that would be extreme. Another is to ''diminish the significance of mythmaking sources'' that represent hyping of the &quot;legend&quot; rather than critical analysis of it. If anything, greater weight should be given to the opinions of professional archaeologists than to adventurers, explorers, authors, and filmmakers who are seeking to profit from popular interest in an inflated &quot;legend&quot; based on vague rumors about an imaginary place. I recommend modeling this article on others about imaginary phenomena. The article on [[Orb (optics)|orbs]], for example, has evolved from one that included a large amount of baseless speculation about recent, popular conceptions asserting the existence of [[paranormal]] phenomena to one that stays close to established facts. Another good example would be the article on the [[2012 phenomenon]], another example of something that stirred up public speculation with little basis in established facts. It is worth documenting as an erroneous belief, as is the likely case with Ciudad Blanca. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 00:57, 13 July 2013 (UTC)
::::::::::I think a more realistic approach would be to move the article to some other title where it will be easier to make an article that conforms to policy. The problem is that it is not clear what the article is about, currently it seems to be about a city that probably only exists as a fantasy in the minds of a few explorers and a journalist. Perhaps there are enough sources ''about'' Preston's article that it would make sense to move it to [[The El Dorado Machine]], or to [[Jungleland]]. Or we could merge it into [[Douglas Preston]] as a section that is what we often do with fringe theories like these. In any case the article as it is now, is simply making a mountain out of a probably imaginary molehill.[[User talk:Maunus|User:Maunus ·ʍaunus·snunɐw·]] 01:13, 13 July 2013 (UTC)
:Thanks. I agree. It is not clear what the article is about, in part (I think) because the &quot;legend&quot; of Ciudad Blanca is virtually nonexistent until the 1990s, with the possible exception of Morde's silly &quot;King Kong&quot; fantasy (which was apparently quickly forgotten until someone dug it up from digital records some fifty years later). It remains vacuous and vague even today. The article is a mess and I have had a difficult time trying to make it into something that is actually useful and relatively unproblematic. The section on Morde's ridiculous article in a forgettable Sunday newspaper supplement is just ridiculous and I'm not yet persuaded that the UTL project is significant enough to merit its own article. Perhaps after more research (or a successful documentary film) is released it will be. I do think it's an important issue to address somehow, especially if additional media hype persuades the general public that &quot;Ciudad Blanca&quot; is something about which they should know. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 01:21, 13 July 2013 (UTC)
::(re to both) I am struggling to see a concrete suggestion for a way forward here... There are, as far as I know, no sources that discuss Preston's article.  ''Jungleland'' is an unrelated book written by another author before Preston's article came out.  It can have an article, sure, but that solves nothing as it relates to this article.  Preston most certainly didn't invent the idea of Ciudad Blanca or even popularize it - there is zero evidence (other than my use of it as a source) that it influenced anybody.  (You can say UTL popularized the legend ''in the US'' to some degree and you'd be correct, but Preston is not UTL, and the legend was well known in Honduras before UTL happened.)  Let's say for argument sake the legend didn't exist until 1990 as Hoopes asserts (for the record, there is concrete proof it existed earlier) - that is still 23 years before Preston's article.  La Ciudad Blanca isn't a fringe theory anymore than Paul Bunyon is fringe theory.  ''It isn't a theory at all'' - it is a fictional story - but one tied to real places in the imaginations of some people.  I see no reason we can't cover the real world associations with the fiction made by reliable (but not scholarly) sources.  
::However, if either of you want to make a short draft article (i.e. from scratch) of what you think would be appropriate, then please do so.  --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 06:34, 13 July 2013 (UTC)
:::I remain unconvinced that there's actually any significant &quot;story,&quot; whether fictional or not, about Ciudad Blanca beyond the most recent sources (such as the fictional movie ''El Xendra''), so the assertion that &quot;it's a fictional story&quot; is weak. Shouldn't there be more discussion of the details of the plot of ''El Xendra'' (which Preston doesn't mention at all), or is it just not notable enough? What would be your source for the &quot;fictional story&quot; to which you refer? What does the narrative of that story claim? You say that &quot;Preston is not UTL.&quot; However, he explains in the ''New Yorker'' how he accompanied a UTL-sponsored trip to Honduras, so he actually did have some involvement with that project. The theory that there is actually a &quot;legend&quot; of Ciudad Blanca may well be a fringe theory, as may be that legend itself ''if the argument can be made that it actually exists.'' There really hasn't been much objective discussion (or documentation) of who has proposed that theory or why it should be considered notable. I really don't see why stating objective facts about Preston's article is a problem. Why would an additional published source be required in order to do that? [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 17:14, 18 July 2013 (UTC)
::::Again, I am not sure what you want to happen.  It is one thing to complain about the sources, say you are unconvinced the story exists, etc.  It is quite another to offer a way to improve.  You say you want it to be like the [[2012 phenomenon]] article.  OK, where are the sources to support such a rewrite?  (For the record, I would argue [[Atlantis]] is a much better comparison article.)  It seems to me (and I could be wrong) that what you want simply isn't possible.  Please correct me if I'm wrong.  
::::As to Preston's article, if you want to discuss the article as an article you need reliable sources that talk about it.  Otherwise, there is no evidence that it is important in and of itself.  Maybe it would be good to have a UTL stand alone article (or maybe not since you've objected), but it makes no sense to discuss it at Preston's page.  It is just a reporter who had access to the project.  He didn't start it or popularize it, or anything like that.
:::::No, it is not &quot;just a reporter,&quot; it is [[Douglas Preston]], author of sensational adventure and horror books, both fiction and nonfiction. While he does nonfiction journalism on archaeology, his article was for the purpose of spinning a compelling story, one that you paraphrased and repeated here. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 00:31, 19 July 2013 (UTC)
::::I don't know anything about ''El Xendra'', but if reliable sources discuss it in relationship to the Ciudad Blanca myth then I have no problem with there being info about it in this article. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 18:15, 18 July 2013 (UTC)
:::::If you don't know anything about ''[http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2452800/ El Xendra]'' (2012), then you are missing a significant recent source concerning the Ciudad Blanca &quot;legend&quot;. (Which, in this case, is actually part of a recent sci-fi movie plot.) It was released in the U.S. in February 2013, [http://vimeo.com/64931504 with Blu-Ray and DVD sales beginning on May 24, 2013] just after 300+ news stories appeared about &quot;Ciudad Blanca&quot;. I'm no [[conspiracy theory|conspiracy theorist]], but I suspect that was more than just coincidence. Do you think any Honduran officials had investments in the film? [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 00:34, 19 July 2013 (UTC)
::::::Like I already said, I have no problem with the movie having a section in this article.  If you think the legend doesn't really exist all I can suggest is to nominate the article for deletion.  I don't see what else can be done to satisfy your POV, If you have a different concrete suggestion, I'm all ears. --[[User:ThaddeusB|ThaddeusB]] ([[User talk:ThaddeusB|talk]]) 21:17, 24 July 2013 (UTC)

== Original research ==

There is far too much material in this article that does not use sources discussing La Ciudad Blanca. I don't have time to clean it up, but it needs to be trimmed of everything that uses sources not discussing Ciudad Blanca. [[User:Dougweller|Dougweller]] ([[User talk:Dougweller|talk]]) 12:34, 16 January 2015 (UTC)
==No original research==
Please take note of the Wikipedia policies concerning inclusion of original research (OR) in articles under [[WP:NOR]] that state: &quot;To demonstrate that you are not adding OR, you must be able to cite reliable, published sources that are '''directly related''' to the topic of the article, and '''directly support''' the material being presented.&quot; Ideally, these published sources should represent scholarly, peer-reviewed articles and books, even though the issue of Ciudad Blanca has been the topic of extended speculation in newspapers, magazines, blogs, and other sources of questionable authority. The cited material should refer specifically to Ciudad Blanca, not to secondary material being assembled in order to provide a context or framework for the presentation of unpublished original research. If you have questions about what content is or is not appropriate, please use this Talk page to discuss it prior to adding it to the article. Otherwise, you may be disappointed to find it removed. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 16:18, 18 January 2015 (UTC)

In particular (from the section of the article on [[WP:NOR]] concerning synthesis of published material): &quot;Do not combine material from multiple sources to reach or imply a conclusion not explicitly stated by any of the sources. Similarly, do not combine different parts of one source to reach or imply a conclusion not explicitly stated by the source. If one reliable source says A, and another reliable source says B, do not join A and B together to imply a conclusion C that is not mentioned by either of the sources. This would be a synthesis of published material to imply a new conclusion, which is original research. 'A and B, therefore C' is acceptable only if a reliable source has published the same argument in relation to the topic of the article. If a single source says 'A' in one context, and 'B' in another, without connecting them, and does not provide an argument of 'therefore C', then 'therefore C' cannot be used in any article.&quot; The Wikipedia article is not an appropriate place to promote original, synthetic interpretations that have not appeared in reliable publications. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 16:18, 18 January 2015 (UTC)
== Quetzalcoatl, Toltecs, and other central Mexican contacts with Ciudad Blanca ==

The article has been extensively edited to insert references to the mythology of [[Quetzalcoatl]], [[Toltecs]], [[Nahua peoples]], and other hypothetical contacts between people of central Mexico and Ciudad Blanca. Material has also been added that represents [[circumstantial evidence]] in support of specific hypotheses and interpretations. In most cases, this has been done citing sources that do not directly mention Ciudad Blanca and represents original research, violating [[WP:NOR]] policies. This material is subject to removal if it cannot be documented with appropriate references to reliable published material. Since these specific references to hypothetical central Mexican ties with eastern Honduras represent a particular set of interpretations, it would be best to create a new section of the article for them. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 16:44, 18 January 2015 (UTC)
== Two New Sections ==

I have created two new sections for the article, &quot;Ciudad Blanca and Indigenous Mythology&quot; and &quot;Ciudad Blanca and Mesoamerica,&quot; and have moved relevant in-depth content to each of these. However, this needs to be carefully and extensively edited for style and content issues, including [[WP:NOR]] issues and appropriate citations. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]]) 17:09, 18 January 2015 (UTC)

These sections have been removed because they represent &quot;original research&quot;. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]])

==Has a &quot;Lost City&quot; or a &quot;Vanished Civilization&quot; Been Found?==
While I understand that the guys in question are reluctant to say that they definitely found The White City, the facts are clear that there's a lost city precisely where the legend states where it is. While its not the biggest thing since the discovery of [[Ubar]] (that 12 thousand year old temple in Turkey is), it's damn close.[[User:Ericl|Ericl]] ([[User talk:Ericl|talk]]) 02:30, 3 March 2015 (UTC)

Actually, not at all. Both archaeologists and the general public have a particular understanding of what is meant by the word [[city]]. No research has been published to demonstrate that what has been reported in eastern Honduras merits this identification. Furthermore, the archaeological remains have never been &quot;lost&quot; since indigenous people have been living continuously in the region since the time of the site's occupation. [[User:Hoopes|Hoopes]] ([[User talk:Hoopes|talk]])
	</talkpage>
</article>