<article id="14530013" title=Talk:Non-classical analysis>
	<talkpage id="14530013" title="Talk:Non-classical analysis">
== General ==
I suggest that the items on this page be accompanied by the names of the
principal authors of the disciplines in question.
[[User:Paul Taylor|Paul Taylor]] 21:52, 2 December 2007 (UTC)

== Abstract Stone Duality ==
This item was added by [[User:Abt_12]], but I don't know who s/he is.
I need to correct it because it contains some errors, in particular
that locally compact spaces form a topos. 

ASD is original research of mine, and it therefore is not appropriate
to create a Wikipedia page for it at this stage, so I have changed the
link to an external one to my web page.  I have changed the text about
it here in the minimal way to correct it but retain the sense of the
original.

It would be nice to be able to link to Wikipedia articles for locales
or for locally compact spaces, but none of these is anywhere near being
appropriate.  The treatment of general topology, order theory and many
other mathematical topics in Wikipedia is heavily biassed towards the
classical (non-constructive) point of view.
[[User:Paul Taylor|Paul Taylor]] 21:52, 2 December 2007 (UTC)

== OR? ==

Do we have any sources for all these items being grouped under such a heading?  [[User:Tkuvho|Tkuvho]] ([[User talk:Tkuvho|talk]]) 10:01, 11 November 2011 (UTC)

: I don't think we do actually, the distinction here clearly isn't in the non-classical logic sense, given the topics.  And while there are many books on &quot;Classical Analysis&quot; it is not clear to me we should group these topics together because they are are not in these texts. [[User:Thenub314|Thenub314]] ([[User talk:Thenub314|talk]]) 03:05, 13 November 2011 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>