<article id="6025155" title=Talk:Peter Lalor>
	<talkpage id="6025155" title="Talk:Peter Lalor">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Biography
|living=no
|class=C
|listas=Lalor, Peter
}}
{{WikiProject Australia|class=C|importance=}}
{{WikiProject Ireland|class=C|importance=Low|listas=Lalor, Peter}}
}}


== Commander in Chief ==

Peter Lalor was elected to lead the miners at the Eureka Stockade. He was known as the Commander in Chief.

Calling him &quot;one of&quot; the key leaders of the rebellion sells him a bit short.

[[User:124.187.178.125|124.187.178.125]] 14:29, 24 October 2006 (UTC)

Peter's family connection back in Ireland, had very strong connections/connotations to the &quot;Young Irelander&quot; movement or the like of this movement.
Believe this is why he was so strong in leadership, within this &quot;Eureka Movement&quot;. Sir Charles Gavan Duffy has the same connotations as Peter.
[[User:Spanrz|Spanrz]] ([[User talk:Spanrz|talk]]) 01:28, 2 August 2015 (UTC)

== Eureka Stockade and the Victorian Constitution ==

The Eureka Stockade had no impact on the Victorian Constitution that 
I am aware of.

The article gives the erroneous impression that it did!

[[User:124.187.178.125|124.187.178.125]] 14:43, 24 October 2006 (UTC)


== Lalor House Haunting ==

Lalor House on Church street is apparantly haunted, as mentioned in a book called &quot;The Ghost Guide to Australia&quot; (Richard Davis, 1998). It should also be noted that Peter and his wife both died in the house and his two children committed suicide in the house. I would like to detail this in the article but would like some feedback first... Also Peter had only one hand?

:I don't know that his house being haunted is [[Wikipedia:Notability|notable]] enough to include in an encyclopedia, but if you have sources on the suicides and one hand then maybe you could include those. [[User:HotshotCleaner|HotshotCleaner]] ([[User talk:HotshotCleaner|talk]]) 01:00, 17 October 2011 (UTC)

::I'd say any book called &quot;The Ghost Guide to ...&quot; is by definition ''not'' [[WP:RELIABLE]]. If there was a reliable source for the deaths and suicides however, then that would be legit to include though. But it would need to be something much more reputable than the book mentioned. --[[User:Jjron|jjron]] ([[User talk:Jjron|talk]]) 05:44, 23 February 2012 (UTC)

== Contradiction in seat ==

[[Peter_Lalor#Politics]] says:

&quot;Lalor never represented Ballarat again and in the 1859 election, he stood for South Granville.&quot;

and two lines later says:

&quot;In 1859 he transferred to the seat of South Grant, which he was to hold for the rest of his life.&quot;

So South Granville or South Grant? Did he stand for one then transfer? Did the seat change names? Both claims are sourced (one online, one offline). Do we have a confirmation either way? As is it's contradictory and confusing. --[[User:Jjron|jjron]] ([[User talk:Jjron|talk]]) 05:49, 23 February 2012 (UTC)


Good pickup. South Granville was won by Mr. Nixon. It should say he stood for South Grant which he won. It should not say that he transferred, as he lost the seat of North Grenville. It should also say that he lost the seat of South Grant in 1871, but won it again in 1875. In 1887 he retired. [[User:David.moreno72|David.moreno72]] ([[User talk:David.moreno72|talk]]) 07:08, 23 February 2012 (UTC)

:Yep, will update it then, based on source at [http://www.parliament.vic.gov.au/re-member/bioregfull.cfm?mid=499 http://www.parliament.vic.gov.au/re-member/bioregfull.cfm?mid=499]. --[[User:Jjron|jjron]] ([[User talk:Jjron|talk]]) 12:49, 23 February 2012 (UTC)


The words within the first paragraph of the Wiki page, need reviewing.
&quot;He is famous for being the only outlaw to make it to parliament&quot;. This is incorrect, as Sir Charles Gavan Duffy was an exiled escapee (or an Outlaw) of the Young Irelander movement. He became part of the State Government of Victoria and even reached status of being Premier.

Lalor was an Irishman who became an Australian Outlaw. Duffy was an Irishman, who was an Irish Outlaw.
[[User:Spanrz|Spanrz]] ([[User talk:Spanrz|talk]]) 01:32, 2 August 2015 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>