<article id="3802958" title=Talk:Gudgeon pin>
	<talkpage id="3802958" title="Talk:Gudgeon pin">
The introduction section is basically complete according to the following criteria:
*Explanation of what it is/what it does.
*The design problems and how they are overcome, particularly with regard to small, high-revving engines (very basic overview).

A particular issue here is what naming convention to use for the article and what redirects should be created. Ideally, every aticle on internal combustion (piston or otherwise) articles should have a common bracketted extension. In my experience it is rather difficult to search for engineering topics on internal combustion engines and their components. The working title I have chosen is descriptive but rather specific. Any ideas? 
--[[User:ChrisJMoor|ChrisJMoor]] 02:26, 22 January 2006 (UTC)

:Gudgeon pins were used in steam engines long before internal combustion engines, so I am moving it accordingly. [[User:Bill Ferguson|Bill F]] 13:42, 24 March 2007 (UTC)

::Thats a good point. However, the header 'locomotive parts' is far too narrow - even 'automobile parts' would be inappropriate because it ignores other prime mover applications, not to mention stationary engines. It would be fine if the term was unique to steam engines. Can't we go with something more general? Another suggestion for more work - can anyone find out the origins of the term? --[[User:ChrisJMoor|ChrisJMoor]] 22:09, 1 April 2007 (UTC)
::Changed categories - copied from the [[engine]] article. Please discuss if you disagree.--[[User:ChrisJMoor|ChrisJMoor]] 22:19, 1 April 2007 (UTC)

== Wrong Link ==

In the Second paragraph the word &quot;Forged&quot; is highlighted as a link ,but goes to the wrong Wikipedia Page. 

It goes here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forged
Instead of here : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forge

Sorry if this message is in the wrong area, I have no idea what the proper etiquette is for sending a message. I just wanted to send you guys a head's up about the error. 

CraigJWK  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/205.167.182.250|205.167.182.250]] ([[User talk:205.167.182.250|talk]]) 19:54, 1 August 2013 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>