<article id="6025829" title=Talk:APEX system>
	<talkpage id="6025829" title="Talk:APEX system">
{{WikiProject Photography|class=start}}
==Redundant?==
Does anyone else find 'APEX system' (Additive system for Photographic
EXposure system) redundant?

I think much of the material on exposure value should go in the entry for
that topic.  Perhaps most of the discussion of the exposure equation should
be in a separate entry for that topic.

I removed the reference to &quot;light value&quot; because the term has had so many
different meanings that it essentially is meaningless; I added all credible
meanings of which I am aware to the entry for [[light value]].

Any discussion of APEX is necessarily historical&amp;mdash;although the concept
was technically interesting, APEX essentially was stillborn.  I'm still not
completely sure when the use of past (vs. present) tense is appropriate.

[[User:JeffConrad|JeffConrad]] 08:03, 19 July 2006 (UTC)

==Edits of 19 October 2006==

There appears to be a bit of a conflict in EXIF 2.2 among &lt;math&gt;K&lt;/math&gt;, &lt;math&gt;N&lt;/math&gt;, and the stated value of &lt;math&gt;B&lt;/math&gt; for Bv = 0; no manufacturer that I know of currently uses &lt;math&gt;K&lt;/math&gt; = 10.7. The standard doesn't explicitly state that &lt;math&gt;N&lt;/math&gt; = 1/3.125, but the implication is strong. I've speculated that it may be due to rounding, but it may just be sloppy copy editing (it seems strange to state that &lt;math&gt;B&lt;/math&gt; is in cd/m^2 yet give the example in footlamberts). The description of the APEX quantities in general is pretty cryptic; it also seems strange not to state or even give guidance on the constants &lt;math&gt;K&lt;/math&gt; and &lt;math&gt;N&lt;/math&gt;.

I've tried to simplify the EXIF section (do we really care whether the data are recorded as rational numbers or unsigned short ints?). I changed the formula to force TeX because the HTML rendering has the annoying habit of appending hyphens to some &amp;lt;math&amp;gt; . . . &amp;lt;/math&amp;gt; sequences. I also moved the EXIF link to the References section for consistency with the other references.

The last paragraph in the EXIF section still needs work. [[User:JeffConrad|JeffConrad]] 10:16, 19 October 2006 (UTC)

Reading the EXIF 2.2 specification yet again, it would appear that Bv and Sv are quantity symbols that weren't properly typeset, so I have changed them accordingly. Because the '''Use of APEX values in EXIF''' section isn't strict homage to APEX, I have followed [[ISO 31-0]] and used upright type for the descriptive subscript v. The seemingly redundant extra curly braces were added to inhibit the dreaded appended hyphen. [[User:JeffConrad|JeffConrad]] 02:51, 20 October 2006 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>