<article id="16083445" title=User talk:219.89.200.92>
	<talkpage id="16083445" title="User talk:219.89.200.92">
'''Welcome'''

Hello and welcome to Wikipedia.  We appreciate encyclopedic contributions, but some of your recent contributions{{#if:|, such as your edit to the page [[:{{{1}}}]],}} seem to be advertising or for promotional purposes.  Wikipedia does not allow advertising in articles.  For more information on this, see
*[[Wikipedia:Neutral point of view|Policy on neutral point of view]]
*[[Wikipedia:Spam|Guideline on spam]]
*[[Wikipedia:External links|Guideline on external links]]
*[[WP:COI|Guideline on conflict of interest]]
If you still have questions, there is a [[Wikipedia:New contributors' help page|new contributor's help page]], or you can write '''&lt;nowiki&gt;{{helpme}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;''' below this message along with a question and someone will be along to answer it shortly.  You may also find the following pages useful for a general introduction to Wikipedia.
*[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]]
*[[Help:Contents|Help pages]]
*[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to write a great article|How to write a great article]]
*[[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]]
I hope you enjoy editing Wikipedia!  Please [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|sign your name]] on talk pages using four tildes (&lt;nowiki&gt;~~~~&lt;/nowiki&gt;); this will automatically produce your name and the date. Feel free to write a note on the bottom of {{#if:|[[User talk:{{{2}}}{{!}}my talk page]]|my talk page}} if you want to get in touch with me. Again, welcome! &lt;!-- Template:Welcomespam --&gt; [[User:Montco|Montco]] ([[User talk:Montco|talk]]) 05:03, 4 March 2008 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>