<article id="44585812" title=User talk:86.143.213.34>
	<talkpage id="44585812" title="User talk:86.143.213.34">

==Welcome==

Hello, and [[Wikipedia:Welcome, newcomers|welcome]] to Wikipedia!

Someone using this [[IP address]], 86.143.213.34, made test edits  which have been [[Help:Reverting|reverted]] or removed. If you did this, please use [[Wikipedia:Sandbox|the sandbox]] for any other tests you may want to do. If 86.143.213.34 is a [[Network address translation|shared IP address]] and you did not do this, you may wish to consider &lt;span class=&quot;plainlinks&quot;&gt;[{{fullurl:Special:Userlogin|type=signup&amp;returnto=Main_Page}} getting a username]&lt;/span&gt; to avoid confusion with other editors and further irrelevant notices.

Here are a few good links for newcomers:
*'''[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]'''
*'''[[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]]'''
*'''[[Wikipedia:Your first article|Tips on starting your first article]]'''
*'''[[Help:Contents|Help pages]]'''
*'''[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]'''

Here are some other hints and tips:
* I recommend that you get a username. You don't have to log in to read or edit articles on Wikipedia, but '''&lt;span class=&quot;plainlinks&quot;&gt;[{{fullurl:Special:Userlogin|type=signup&amp;campaign=anonwelcometemplate}} creating an account]&lt;/span&gt;''' is quick, free and non-intrusive, requires no personal information, and there are many [[Wikipedia:Why create an account?|benefits of having a username]]. (If you edit without a username, your [[IP address]] is used to identify you instead.)
* When using [[Wikipedia:talk pages|talk pages]], please [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|sign your name]] at the end of your messages by typing four tildes (&lt;nowiki&gt;~~~~&lt;/nowiki&gt;). This will automatically produce your username (or IP address) and the date.

I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! If you need [[Wikipedia:Help|help]], check out [[Wikipedia:Where to ask a question]], ask me on [[User talk:Brookie|my talk page]], or type &lt;code&gt;{{&lt;nowiki/&gt;[[:Category:Wikipedians looking for help|helpme]]}}&lt;/code&gt; here on ''your'' talk page and someone will show up shortly to answer your questions. Again, welcome! &lt;!-- Template:Welcome-anon-test --&gt; &lt;span style=&quot;text-shadow:#194D00 0.2em 0.2em 0.2em&quot; class=&quot;texhtml&quot;&gt;[[User:Brookie|'''&lt;font color=&quot;#000888&quot;&gt;Brookie :)  { - he's in the building somewhere!} &lt;/font&gt;''']] [[User talk:Brookie|&lt;sup&gt;(Whisper...)&lt;/sup&gt;]]&lt;/span&gt; 15:23, 3 December 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>