<article id="27509668" title=Talk:Personal life of Wilt Chamberlain>
	<talkpage id="27509668" title="Talk:Personal life of Wilt Chamberlain">
{{merged-to|Wilt Chamberlain}}

{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject National Basketball Association|class=redirect|importance=low}}
{{WikiProject California|class=redirect|importance=low
}}
{{WikiProject Basketball|class=redirect|importance=low}}
}}

== Merge with Wilt Chamberlain article? ==

Why is this a separate page?  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/66.215.96.126|66.215.96.126]] ([[User talk:66.215.96.126|talk]]) 19:25, 6 April 2011 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:Cuz he slept with 20 000 chicks and he's a hero. [[Special:Contributions/84.197.115.157|84.197.115.157]] ([[User talk:84.197.115.157|talk]]) 17:49, 24 June 2011 (UTC)

::Do you really believe he had sex with 20,000 women.  If you do, than you must be really gullible.  Also, why does the article pretend that the claim is true?  If you are going to give an honest critique than there should be sketicism.  For this to be than Wilt would have had to had sex with 1.36 new women per day over the course of 40 years.  He supposedly had sex with 20,000women, but there was never any paternity claims.  Never any vindictive ex's who went public to expose him.  He lived in Hollywood, but was rumored to be in relationships with any celebrity women.  Where are the women who were part of Wilt's 20,000?  Where are the stories?  All you got is stories from people who didn't have sex with him  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/174.60.88.186|174.60.88.186]] ([[User talk:174.60.88.186|talk]]) 19:01, 15 February 2014 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

This really makes no sense as a separate page. Personal life is by definition the main subject of any biography. [[User:Ian Lancaster|Ian]] ([[User talk:Ian Lancaster|talk]]) 09:46, 3 June 2015 (UTC)
:&lt;s&gt;Done. Delete it.&lt;/s&gt; —[[User:DangerousJXD|DangerousJXD]] ([[User talk:DangerousJXD|talk]]) 10:16, 3 June 2015 (UTC)
::For what it's worth, I agree. —[[User:DangerousJXD|DangerousJXD]] ([[User talk:DangerousJXD|talk]]) 22:04, 3 June 2015 (UTC)
==Discussing merge==
I created a new section for discussion because the above is messy. I have already said I think this article should be merged into [[Wilt Chamberlain]]. —[[User:DangerousJXD|DangerousJXD]] ([[User talk:DangerousJXD|talk]]) 06:12, 4 June 2015 (UTC)
: I feel like we can move ahead with the merge given the good work you've done and considering the discussion has been open for some time above (albeit not constructively). [[User:Ian Lancaster|Ian]] ([[User talk:Ian Lancaster|talk]]) 03:58, 5 June 2015 (UTC)
:: Merged. [[User:Ian Lancaster|Ian]] ([[User talk:Ian Lancaster|talk]]) 04:00, 5 June 2015 (UTC)
:::&lt;s&gt;Wait I'm confused. [[User:Ian Lancaster|Ian]], what was put in the Wilt Chamberlain article that was here? I don't see anything in the Wilt Chamberlain edit history. Has it not been done yet?&lt;/s&gt; Disregard. —[[User:DangerousJXD|DangerousJXD]] ([[User talk:DangerousJXD|talk]]) 06:32, 5 June 2015 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>