<article id="18191995" title=Talk:Aquatica (water parks)>
	<talkpage id="18191995" title="Talk:Aquatica (water parks)">
{{WikiProject Amusement Parks|class=c|importance=mid|seaworld=yes|seaworld-importance=top}}

==Untitled==
i would like to see some pictures of cabanas at aquatica &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:78.149.190.21|78.149.190.21]] ([[User talk:78.149.190.21|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/78.149.190.21|contribs]]) 13:14, 29 June 2008‎&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt;

== Merge? ==
{{Discussion top|The result of this discussion was '''merge'''.}}
I don't mind either way on this but how would everyone else feel if the [[Aquatica Florida]] and [[Aquatica San Antonio]] articles were merged to form an article similar to [[Six Flags Hurricane Harbor]], [[Knott's Soak City]] etc. This would also allow information about the new [[Aquatica San Diego]] to be included as well. &lt;span style=&quot;border:1px solid #0072BC;padding:1px;&quot;&gt;[[User:Themeparkgc|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#0072BC;padding-left:1px;&quot;&gt;Themeparkgc&lt;/span&gt;]]&amp;nbsp;[[User_talk:Themeparkgc|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#fff;background:#0072BC;&quot;&gt;&amp;nbsp;Talk&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;]]&lt;/span&gt; 01:12, 22 November 2012 (UTC)
:'''Support''' as long as it would look like the [[Knott's Soak City]] because the contents box is clearer and the article has less subtitles. {{keypress|[[User:Ihafez|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#008B8B;&quot;&gt;'''''ihafez'''''&lt;/span&gt;]] [[User talk:Ihafez|&lt;sup&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;color:#00C5CD;&quot;&gt;'''talk'''&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;]]}}01:58, 22 November 2012 (UTC)
:'''Support''' I was just about to create the Aquatica San Diego and I saw this. I think it would be a good idea.--[[User:Astros4477|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#FF8C00&quot;&gt;'''Astros4477'''&lt;/span&gt;]] ([[User talk:Astros4477|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#00A550&quot;&gt;'''talk'''&lt;/span&gt;]]) 01:23, 1 December 2012 (UTC)
{{unindent|2}}
I've started a draft article structure at [[User:Themeparkgc/Sandboxes/Aquatica]]. Feel free to contribute. All contribution history will be preserved when moving to the main article space. &lt;span style=&quot;border:1px solid #0072BC;padding:1px;&quot;&gt;[[User:Themeparkgc|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#0072BC;padding-left:1px;&quot;&gt;Themeparkgc&lt;/span&gt;]]&amp;nbsp;[[User_talk:Themeparkgc|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#fff;background:#0072BC;&quot;&gt;&amp;nbsp;Talk&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;]]&lt;/span&gt; 02:16, 1 December 2012 (UTC)
:What does everyone else think of [[User:Themeparkgc/Sandboxes/Aquatica|the draft article]] in its current state? I think it is pretty much ready for publication. &lt;span style=&quot;border:1px solid #0072BC;padding:1px;&quot;&gt;[[User:Themeparkgc|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#0072BC;padding-left:1px;&quot;&gt;Themeparkgc&lt;/span&gt;]]&amp;nbsp;[[User_talk:Themeparkgc|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#fff;background:#0072BC;&quot;&gt;&amp;nbsp;Talk&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;]]&lt;/span&gt; 01:18, 9 December 2012 (UTC)
::I think it looks pretty good. Maybe a little more information in the San Diego section of what it will have?--[[User:Astros4477|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#FF8C00&quot;&gt;'''Astros4477'''&lt;/span&gt;]] ([[User talk:Astros4477|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#00A550&quot;&gt;'''talk'''&lt;/span&gt;]]) 02:17, 9 December 2012 (UTC)
:::Good job, we just need to copy the ride info from [[Aquatica San Diego]]'s attractions. {{keypress|[[User:Ihafez|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#008B8B;&quot;&gt;'''''ihafez'''''&lt;/span&gt;]] [[User talk:Ihafez|&lt;sup&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;color:#00C5CD;&quot;&gt;'''talk'''&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;]]}} 17:16, 10 December 2012 (UTC)
::::Well I don't think any of the attractions for the San Diego park have been announced yet. The listing currently on the Soak City page is likely to change before the park reopens as Aquatica. &lt;span style=&quot;border:1px solid #0072BC;padding:1px;&quot;&gt;[[User:Themeparkgc|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#0072BC;padding-left:1px;&quot;&gt;Themeparkgc&lt;/span&gt;]]&amp;nbsp;[[User_talk:Themeparkgc|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#fff;background:#0072BC;&quot;&gt;&amp;nbsp;Talk&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;]]&lt;/span&gt; 01:28, 15 December 2012 (UTC)
{{Discussion bottom}}

==Requested move==
&lt;div class=&quot;boilerplate&quot; style=&quot;background-color: #efe; margin: 2em 0 0 0; padding: 0 10px 0 10px; border: 1px dotted #aaa;&quot;&gt;&lt;!-- Template:polltop --&gt;
:''The following discussion is an archived discussion of the proposal. &lt;span style=&quot;color:red&quot;&gt;'''Please do not modify it.'''&lt;/span&gt; Subsequent comments should be made in a new section on the talk page. No further edits should be made to this section. ''

The result of the proposal was '''no consensus''', and no prejudice against a new request. Now that this article has existed for a while, we should have a whole month of data to examine for January, though this RM may have skewed relevant page views. --[[User:BDD|BDD]] ([[User talk:BDD|talk]]) 17:23, 31 January 2013 (UTC)

* [[:Aquatica (water parks)]] → {{no redirect|Aquatica}}
* [[:Aquatica]] → {{no redirect|Aquatica (disambiguation)}}
– I believe the article on the water parks is the primary topic. A Google News search reveals approximately 18&amp;ndash;29x more results for [http://www.google.com.au/search?pz=1&amp;cf=all&amp;ned=au&amp;hl=en&amp;hl=en&amp;gl=au&amp;tbm=nws&amp;q=aquatica+united+states&amp;oq=&amp;aq=&amp;aqi=&amp;aql=&amp;gs_sm=&amp;gs_upl=#hl=en&amp;tbo=d&amp;gl=au&amp;tbs=ar:1&amp;tbm=nws&amp;sclient=psy-ab&amp;q=aquatica+%28%22united+states%22+OR+orlando+OR+%22san+diego%22+OR+%22san+antonio%22+OR+%22seaworld%22+OR+%22sea+world%22%29+-kolkata&amp;oq=aquatica+%28%22united+states%22+OR+orlando+OR+%22san+diego%22+OR+%22san+antonio%22+OR+%22seaworld%22+OR+%22sea+world%22%29+-kolkata&amp;gs_l=serp.3...3865.3865.3.4092.1.1.0.0.0.0.0.0..0.0...0.1...1c.1.BoRdXrEy09c&amp;pbx=1&amp;bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.r_qf.&amp;bvm=bv.1355325884,d.dGY&amp;fp=de8cf0eecf1c687d&amp;bpcl=39967673&amp;biw=1440&amp;bih=775 the US water park chain] when compared to [http://www.google.com.au/search?pz=1&amp;cf=all&amp;ned=au&amp;hl=en&amp;hl=en&amp;gl=au&amp;tbm=nws&amp;q=aquatica+kolkata&amp;oq=&amp;aq=&amp;aqi=&amp;aql=&amp;gs_sm=&amp;gs_upl=#hl=en&amp;tbo=d&amp;gl=au&amp;tbs=ar:1&amp;tbm=nws&amp;sclient=psy-ab&amp;q=aquatica+%28kolkata+OR+india%29+-seaworld&amp;oq=aquatica+%28kolkata+OR+india%29+-seaworld&amp;gs_l=serp.3...2481.3926.2.3956.10.9.0.0.0.0.303.1730.2-6j1.7.0...0.0...1c.1.I_mxQp_QneU&amp;pbx=1&amp;bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.r_qf.&amp;bvm=bv.1355325884,d.dGY&amp;fp=de8cf0eecf1c687d&amp;bpcl=39967673&amp;biw=1440&amp;bih=775 Aquatica Kolkata] and [http://www.google.com.au/search?pz=1&amp;cf=all&amp;ned=au&amp;hl=en&amp;hl=en&amp;gl=au&amp;tbm=nws&amp;q=Psathyrella+aquatica&amp;oq=&amp;aq=&amp;aqi=&amp;aql=&amp;gs_sm=&amp;gs_upl=#q=Psathyrella+aquatica&amp;hl=en&amp;tbo=d&amp;gl=au&amp;tbm=nws&amp;source=lnt&amp;tbs=ar:1&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=vSLNUJ6OAa7jmAWZ04D4Cw&amp;ved=0CCYQpwUoBQ&amp;bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.r_qf.&amp;bvm=bv.1355325884,d.dGY&amp;fp=de8cf0eecf1c687d&amp;bpcl=39967673&amp;biw=1440&amp;bih=775 Psathyrella aquatica], respectively. The last article on the DAB page, [[Aquatica KK]], is only briefly mentioned in the [[The Green Connection]] article. That article was redirected many years ago, presumably after notability concerns. A hatnote could be added on [[Aquatica (water parks)]] to point to the disambiguation page. &lt;small&gt;''Relisted''. [[User:BDD|BDD]] ([[User talk:BDD|talk]]) 19:48, 27 December 2012 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt; &lt;span style=&quot;border:1px solid #0072BC;padding:1px;&quot;&gt;[[User:Themeparkgc|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#0072BC;padding-left:1px;&quot;&gt;Themeparkgc&lt;/span&gt;]]&amp;nbsp;[[User_talk:Themeparkgc|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#fff;background:#0072BC;&quot;&gt;&amp;nbsp;Talk&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;]]&lt;/span&gt; 01:31, 16 December 2012 (UTC)
*'''Oppose'''. This article was only created a couple of weeks ago, I would want to compare page views with the other articles at [[Aquatica]] before supporting this, and it's far too early to do so now. [[User:Zarcadia|Zarcadia]] ([[User talk:Zarcadia|talk]]) 17:33, 16 December 2012 (UTC)
::'''Comment''' - as this article was the merger of [[Aquatica Florida]] and [[Aquatica San Antonio]] you could pull up the page view stats of both articles as well as [[Aquatica San Diego]] which was just a redirect at the time. Statistics over the past 30 days:
::*The three Aquatica parks discussed in this article: [http://stats.grok.se/en/latest30/Aquatica%20Florida 1175], [http://stats.grok.se/en/latest30/Aquatica%20San%20Diego 965], and [http://stats.grok.se/en/latest30/Aquatica%20San%20Antonio 630] views, respectively (total: 2770)
::*Aquatica (Kolkata): [http://stats.grok.se/en/latest30/Aquatica%20%28Kolkata%29 754]
::*Aquatica KK (The Green Connection): [http://stats.grok.se/en/latest30/The%20Green%20Connection 257]
::*Psathyrella aquatica: [http://stats.grok.se/en/latest30/Psathyrella%20aquatica 313]
::*The disambiguation page itself: [http://stats.grok.se/en/latest30/Aquatica 324]
::&lt;span style=&quot;border:1px solid #0072BC;padding:1px;&quot;&gt;[[User:Themeparkgc|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#0072BC;padding-left:1px;&quot;&gt;Themeparkgc&lt;/span&gt;]]&amp;nbsp;[[User_talk:Themeparkgc|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#fff;background:#0072BC;&quot;&gt;&amp;nbsp;Talk&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;]]&lt;/span&gt; 22:00, 21 December 2012 (UTC)
:::There's a tonne more species than that ({{intitle|aquatica}}) -- [[Special:Contributions/65.92.180.225|65.92.180.225]] ([[User talk:65.92.180.225|talk]]) 05:21, 28 December 2012 (UTC)
::::Wow, I never knew that. I wonder why one species was included on the DAB and the others weren't. &lt;span style=&quot;border:1px solid #0072BC;padding:1px;&quot;&gt;[[User:Themeparkgc|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#0072BC;padding-left:1px;&quot;&gt;Themeparkgc&lt;/span&gt;]]&amp;nbsp;[[User_talk:Themeparkgc|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#fff;background:#0072BC;&quot;&gt;&amp;nbsp;Talk&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;]]&lt;/span&gt; 22:45, 28 December 2012 (UTC)
*'''Support'''. Judging by the page view stats for the articles actually called &quot;Aquatica&quot;, this appears to be more prominent than all the other options combined. I don't believe thespecies should be on the list unless they are commonly called just &quot;aquatica&quot;, per [[MOS:DAB]].--[[User:Cuchullain|Cúchullain]] [[User talk:Cuchullain|&lt;sup&gt;t&lt;/sup&gt;]]/[[Special:Contributions/Cuchullain|&lt;small&gt;c&lt;/small&gt;]] 16:56, 8 January 2013 (UTC)
*'''Oppose'''.  The fact that the articles were merged does not mean that you can count all of the page hits as ones for the company.  In fact they could be used to make the case that an article for each park could be justified.  [[User:Vegaswikian|Vegaswikian]] ([[User talk:Vegaswikian|talk]]) 21:55, 19 January 2013 (UTC)
*'''Support'''. Even if an article for each park is justified, the primary topic of the title would still be the family of parks. [[User:BD2412|&lt;font style=&quot;background:tan&quot;&gt;'''''bd2412'''''&lt;/font&gt;]] [[User talk:BD2412|'''T''']] 16:42, 28 January 2013 (UTC)
:''The above discussion is preserved as an archive of the proposal.  &lt;span style=&quot;color:red&quot;&gt;'''Please do not modify it.'''&lt;/span&gt; Subsequent comments should be made in a new section on this talk page. No further edits should be made to this section.&lt;/div&gt;&lt;!-- Template:pollbottom --&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>