<article id="17219988" title=User talk:Chico (usurped)>
	<talkpage id="17219988" title="User talk:Chico (usurped)">
==Request for Usurpation==

Hello, Chico. A request has been made at [[Wikipedia:Changing username/Usurpations]] to usurp, or &quot;take over&quot;, your username because you have not used it to edit, and another user would like to use it to edit. [[Wikipedia:Changing username/Usurpations]] says that any unused username may be usurped if the user is given seven days notice to object and does not do so. 

If you have an email set in [[Special:Preferences|your preferences]], you should be getting an email from a [[Wikipedia:Bureaucrat|bureaucrat]] or changing username clerk explaining how to consent or object to this process. 

&lt;span style=&quot;color: green;&quot;&gt;'''If you do not object to being renamed'''&lt;/span&gt; to a new username in order for another user to utilize the name you currently have, please log in and post a reply here saying so (you may also tell us what username you would like to be renamed to, or we will provide you with a generic one). 

&lt;span style=&quot;color: orange;&quot;&gt;'''If you do nothing'''&lt;/span&gt;: the request will be filled after seven days, and your account will be moved to a generic username. You may request that it be moved to a new username of your choice at any time.

&lt;span style=&quot;color: crimson;&quot;&gt;'''If you object to being renamed'''&lt;/span&gt;: please log in and make an edit. You may make an edit here saying &quot;No&quot;, you may make an edit to blank this page, or any other edit you like; making any edit at all prevents your username from being usurped, because users with edits cannot have their usernames usurped. 

Please note that '''even if your current username is usurped, you can still edit and your data will not be lost'''; your preferences, watchlist, and other user settings will be transferred to a new username.

Thank you for your time.&lt;!-- Template:Usurpation requested --&gt;
:This request made on behalf of [[User:Chico-br|Chico-br]] &amp;mdash; '''[[User:Seresin|seresin]] ( [[User talk:Seresin|ยก?]] )''' 23:18, 1 May 2008 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>