<article id="18108128" title=Talk:Shim (computing)>
	<talkpage id="18108128" title="Talk:Shim (computing)">
{{talkheader}}
{{WikiProject Computing|class=Start|importance=mid}}

== HTML coding ==
How about adding something to this page about the use of the word &quot;shim&quot; when meaning a small (usually 1px x 1px) image to fill empty table cells in HTML code? [[User:Sibruk|Sibruk]] ([[User talk:Sibruk|talk]]) 14:44, 31 July 2008 (UTC)
:Don't you mean [[web bug]]? &lt;font style=&quot;font-family:Monotype Corsiva&quot;&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;black&quot;&gt;&lt;font size=&quot;4&quot;&gt;Socrates2008 (&lt;font size=3&gt;[[User talk:Socrates2008|Talk]]&lt;/font&gt;)&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/font&gt; 11:58, 1 August 2008 (UTC)

== Shim vs. abstraction layer ==

What is the difference between ''shim'' and ''[[abstraction layer]]''? --[[User:Abdull|Abdull]] ([[User talk:Abdull|talk]]) 12:36, 12 August 2010 (UTC)


=== vs. Wrapper library ===

&quot;shim&quot; sounds like a very local term.. I've never heard anyone use it as a professional programmer dealing with web services, SOAP apis and the like for the last several years. 

[[Special:Contributions/67.52.149.227|67.52.149.227]] ([[User talk:67.52.149.227|talk]]) 15:49, 3 September 2013 (UTC)

== Wine? ==

If Wine is a shim, than a shim can hardly be a &quot;small library&quot;, can it? Also, the [[Wine (software)|Wine] article states it's a compatibility layer. So I propose removing Wine from the list of shims. [[User:Jalwikip|Jalwikip]] ([[User talk:Jalwikip|talk]]) 08:40, 9 September 2013 (UTC)
:Agree &lt;i&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;black&quot;&gt;&lt;font size=&quot;2&quot;&gt;Socrates2008&lt;/i&gt; (&lt;font size=2&gt;[[User talk:Socrates2008|Talk]]&lt;/font&gt;)&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/font&gt; 11:09, 9 September 2013 (UTC)
::Also agree, and as no dissent since 2013, I will do so. [[User:Quaestor23|Quaestor23]] ([[User talk:Quaestor23|talk]]) 23:37, 20 March 2015 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>