<article id="7513524" title=Talk:Nitish Katara murder case>
	<talkpage id="7513524" title="Talk:Nitish Katara murder case">
{{Talk header}}
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject India|class=Start
|importance=low
}}
{{WikiProject Law|class=C|importance=Low}}
{{WikiProject Law Enforcement|class=Start}}
{{WikiProject Biography|living=no|class=Start|listas=Katara, Nitish}}
}}


== [[Wikipedia:WikiProject_Biography/Assessment#Class_parameter|Biography assessment rating]] comment ==
[[Wikipedia:WikiProject_Biography/Assessment/Assessment_Drive|WikiProject Biography Summer 2007 Assessment Drive]]

The article may be improved by following the [[Wikipedia:WikiProject_Biography#WikiProject_Biography_11_easy_steps_to_producing_at_least_a_B_article|WikiProject Biography 11 easy steps]] to producing at least a B article. -- '''&lt;font color=&quot;#FF3300&quot;&gt;[[User:Yamara|Yamara]]&lt;/font&gt;''' 15:21, 27 June 2007 (UTC)


 &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:EramParvez|EramParvez]] ([[User talk:EramParvez|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/EramParvez|contribs]]) 12:54, 30 May 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Bot report : Found duplicate references ! ==
In [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?useskin=monobook&amp;title=Nitish_Katara&amp;redirect=no&amp;oldid=230036002 the last revision I edited], I found duplicate named references, i.e. references sharing the same name, but not having the same content. Please check them, as I am not able to fix them automatically :) 
* &quot;neelam-bar&quot; :
** &lt;nowiki&gt;
{{cite news
 | title = Bharti seeks bar on Neelam Katara' presence
 | publisher = [[The Hindu]]
 | url = http://www.hindu.com/2006/11/22/stories/2006112209030400.htm
 | date = [[2006-11-22]]
}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;
** &lt;nowiki&gt;, leading to speculation that she may be planning to repudiate things she had told Neelam in the past. In any case, this request was turned down&lt;ref&gt;
{{cite news
 | title = Neelam Katara allowed to witness Bharti's testimony
 | publisher = [[DNA (newspaper)]] / PTI
 | url = http://www.dnaindia.com/report.asp?NewsID=1065735
 | date= November 23, 2006
}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;
[[User:DumZiBoT|DumZiBoT]] ([[User talk:DumZiBoT|talk]]) 10:18, 12 August 2008 (UTC)

== this is like an article talking about castes. ==

please remove unnecessary sentences.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/38.101.155.250|38.101.155.250]] ([[User talk:38.101.155.250|talk]]) 10:28, 7 January 2011 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== this article is spreads hatread against  Yadav community ==

what does this mean yadavs gained wealth but are rough and kataras are refined.too much usage of word yadav . dp yadav ,mulam singh yadav .this article is on nitish katara however it is written like a detective novel describing about yadav community.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/38.101.155.250|38.101.155.250]] ([[User talk:38.101.155.250|talk]]) 10:34, 7 January 2011 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Article is filled with personal interpretation ==

I'm currently going through and trying to scrub the article of personal opinions. We cannot state our opinion about whether or not they were &quot;really&quot; in love, why the Yadav family didn't like her, why the murder occurred, etc.  All we may do is cover the information found in reliable sources. If those sources express an opinion, we may report it, as long as that opinion meets [[WP:DUE]].  [[User:Qwyrxian|Qwyrxian]] ([[User talk:Qwyrxian|talk]]) 01:45, 4 July 2011 (UTC)

:I think I've fixed the neutrality problems, although others may think that more needs to be done.  I'm concerned that a few of the references are dead links, but at the moment guess we just have to trust that they were entered in good faith earlier. [[User:Qwyrxian|Qwyrxian]] ([[User talk:Qwyrxian|talk]]) 02:32, 4 July 2011 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>