<article id="9012947" title=Talk:Lotus Mark II>
	<talkpage id="9012947" title="Talk:Lotus Mark II">
{{WikiProject Automobiles | class=stub |importance=}}
{{WikiProject Brands|class=stub|importance=}}

== Photo ==
Unfortunately, I do not possess a photo that is copyright-free of the Lotus Mk.2.  Does any Lotus fan have one they might contribute? [[User:Tom Bartlett|Tom Bartlett]] 02:49, 20 January 2007 (UTC)
: It now has photos. But there is an issue. Was there more than one made? In the categoty at Commons there are three photos of a red one that appears to be the same and one photo of one in unpainted aluminium. The unpainted one looks more like the one in the Motorbase photo (no, not the one that is an early Lotus 6). The licence plate (LJH 702) matches the red car. Perhaps it was restored to original specifications? // [[User:Liftarn|Liftarn]] ([[User talk:Liftarn|talk]])
::According to &quot;The Lotus Book&quot; (Coterie Press Book, Wiliam Taylor, 1998) there was only one.  The book has several photos of the car, it seems that the earlier photos (in which the car was being raced) show the car as appearing in bare aluminum, and the later photos show a red paint job. [[User:Tom Bartlett|Tom Bartlett]] ([[User talk:Tom Bartlett|talk]]) 20:01, 27 February 2008 (UTC)

==---==
As an aside, I've seen mention in two books that the Mk. 2 appeared in the Boulting Brothers' comedy entitled ''Brothers-in-Law'' starring Ian Carmichael and Nicholas Parsons. Apparently it was the honeymoon car. [[User:Tom Bartlett|Tom Bartlett]] 02:56, 20 January 2007 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>