<article id="36477581" title=Talk:M-1 (Michigan highway)/Archive 1>
	<talkpage id="36477581" title="Talk:M-1 (Michigan highway)/Archive 1">
{{talk archive navigation}}

== The michigan left ==

 
The michigan left is a u-turn taken right of where you want to make left to....  That should be brought back.  

Woodaward is rumoured to be the first paved concrete road in the country. That should be verified and added.  

:The &quot;[[Michigan left]] turn&quot; was introduced on the divided segment of Woodward Avenue.
Because [http://www.michiganhighways.org/indepth/michigan_left.html#history this article] from Michigan Highways indicates that Michigan left was first introduced on Telegraph road and then refined on 8-mile road. [[User:Bkonrad|older]]&lt;font color=blue&gt;'''≠'''&lt;/font&gt;[[User talk:Bkonrad|wiser]] 22:16, 27 Jun 2004 (UTC)


== Model T Plant ==

The Home of the Model T Plant is on Woodward and it was the first mile of paved concrete road in the country  (Between 6 mile and 7 mile).  --[[User:ScarletSpiderDave|ScarletSpiderDave]] 14:34, 28 May 2006 (UTC)

== on the verge of decommissioning? ==

I saw this [[Talk:List of highways in Michigan#Infoboxes|infobox in the talk page for Michigan's list of highways]].  It says that M-1 is decommissioned in 2009, is that true that it will be decommissioned then? --[[User:Nintendude|Nintendude]] &lt;sup&gt; &lt;font color=&quot;green&quot;&gt;[[User:Nintendude|userpage]]&lt;/font&gt; | &lt;font color=&quot;Orange&quot;&gt;[[User talk:Nintendude|message]]&lt;/font&gt; &lt;/sup&gt; 19:51, 22 June 2006 (UTC)

:Err, I think that was only being used to illustrate how the infobox would look -- not that that particular infobox was intended for use as is. [[User:Bkonrad|older]] ≠ [[User talk:Bkonrad|wiser]] 20:30, 22 June 2006 (UTC)

::As the one that made that infobox, I can confirm that it was for demonstration purposes ''only.''  I wanted to show how each line would be filled.  Don't worry; to my knowledge, M-1's not going anywhere. —IW4&lt;span class=&quot;plainlinks&quot;&gt;&lt;sup&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;black&quot;&gt;[[User:IW4|U]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;sub&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;black&quot;&gt;[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=User_talk:IW4&amp;action=edit&amp;amp;section=new T]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/sub&gt;&lt;sup&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;black&quot;&gt;[[Commons:User:IW4|C]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;/span&gt; 00:56, 17 August 2006 (UTC)

== terminus Jefferson-Adams ==

I changed the terminus to Jefferson Ave, and then read in the article it is Adams street. I guess I should change it back, but is there any better way to articulate this &quot;jurisdictional&quot; change in the info box. As someone who is quite familiar with Woodward downtown, it just flies in the face of commonsense and common usage to have it terminate at Adams. What are suppost to call the Woodward that extends beyond? looking at maps its Woodward and buildings along the section south of Adams are Woodward addresses. Any way to make this distinction in the article more clear then just as a single sentence at the end of the article? I actually don't really understand the reason myself, so it needs to be made clearer in my opinion. Plus, my picture of Woodward Ave I inserted is thus part of what Street? The street with no name?--[[User:Mikerussell|Mikerussell]] 17:26, 31 March 2007 (UTC)--[[User:Mikerussell|Mikerussell]] 17:20, 31 March 2007 (UTC)
:Woodward Avenue is a street in Oakland and Wayne counties. M-1 is a state highway that runs along a portion of that street. Woodward Avenue does extend under the Woodward name past the termini of M-1 on both ends. The infobox now properly reflects the highway designation as the title of the article is M-1 (Michigan highway) not Woodward Avenue. I added in explanatory information in the Woodward sections of the article to reflect this. [[User:Imzadi1979|Imzadi1979]] 18:50, 31 March 2007 (UTC)

== Median in Ferndale ==

The link from the M-39 page says that the section of the Southfield in Lincoln Park between I-75 and Fort St. is not M-39 because the parking in the median is against M-DOT standards. There used to be similar parking at Woodward and Nine Mile. Was it removed because of the regulation? Details? [[User:MMetro|MMetro]] 07:06, 5 October 2007 (UTC)

== Pronunciation ==

Shouldn't there be a pronunciation key, inasmuch as Woodward is not pronounced the way it looks, but is actually pronounced &quot;Woodurd&quot;? Sincerely, [[User:GeorgeLouis|GeorgeLouis]] 06:07, 1 December 2007 (UTC)
:I'm not sure where you heard that pronunciation, George, but the name of the street is pronounced the way it looks (WOOD-word) in Metro Detroit. --[[User:Thomprod|Thomprod]] ([[User talk:Thomprod|talk]]) 22:34, 7 January 2009 (UTC)

== Width ==

Does anyone know the exact current width of the avenue through downtown, Midtown and New Center, and then what the width was before it was widened? --[[User:Criticalthinker|Criticalthinker]] ([[User talk:Criticalthinker|talk]]) 11:49, 22 June 2012 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>