<article id="22203077" title=Talk:Google Street View/to do>
	<talkpage id="22203077" title="Talk:Google Street View/to do">
{{tasks
  |requests=&lt;br /&gt;&lt;br /&gt;Where available, introduce external links in articles to the places on Google Street View described in those articles. This includes:&lt;br /&gt;*In articles about specific landmarks, links to those landmarks&lt;br /&gt;*In articles about events in specific places, the location(s) where the events occurred&lt;br /&gt;&lt;br /&gt;To do this:&lt;br /&gt;1.) Find the location on Street View, and align it to get the best possible view&lt;br /&gt;2.) Click &quot;link&quot; on the top-right of the image&lt;br /&gt;3.) Copy and paste the given link into the external links section in the article. If no external links section exists, introduce one.&lt;br /&gt;4.) Indicate in the edit summary the addition of the link&lt;br /&gt;&lt;br /&gt;Only introduce such links if information is provided in a reliable source showing or describing the exact location (address or intersection). &lt;b&gt;Do &lt;u&gt;not&lt;/u&gt; guess the location&lt;/b&gt; or determine it through your own original research.&lt;br /&gt;&lt;br /&gt;Avoid links showing the location of a private single-family dwelling unit, unless it is well-known. This is due to privacy concerns.&lt;br /&gt;
  |copyedit=
  |wikify=
  |merge=
  |split=
  |verify=
  |cleanup=
  |expand=
  |disambiguation=
  |stubs=
  |update=If Google introduced a better version of an image already provided in an external link, replace it.
  |npov=
  |infobox=
  |other=Please see [[Wikipedia:WikiProject Council/Proposals/Street View|WikiProject Street View]] for more details.
}}

Describe why Google does this. How does Google earn income from StreetView?
	</talkpage>
</article>