<article id="7641644" title=Talk:The Junior Mint>
	<talkpage id="7641644" title="Talk:The Junior Mint">
{{WikiProject Seinfeld|class=C|importance=mid}}
{{WikiProject Television|episode-coverage=Yes|class=C|auto=Inherit|importance=|listas=Junior Mint, The}}

==Dolores==
Are we sure that's her name? Or was it just another bad guess?--[[User:Seventy-one|Seventy-one]] 02:08, 27 October 2006 (UTC)
:Didn't she say it at the end of the episode? Should someone maybe put a spoiler warning, 'cause the effect of the episode is a lot better when you're guessing along with Jerry and the gang? [[User:Jordanzed|JordanZed]] 00:09, 19 June 2007 (UTC)
::As the article currently reads the synopsis gives the impression that ''Dolores'' was just another feeble guess by Jerry. In the section on actors however, she is referred to by that name without any qualifications. __[[User:Meco|meco]] ([[User talk:Meco|talk]]) 15:15, 25 December 2009 (UTC)
:::I've attempted to make the article consequent in this respect making it clear that her name is never confirmed to the audience. __[[User:Meco|meco]] ([[User talk:Meco|talk]]) 08:54, 23 December 2010 (UTC)

== Lawsuit ==

Dropped:

:*In 2000, a Milwaukee man was fired for sexual harassment because he mentioned this episode. In turn, he attempted to sue Jerry Seinfeld and Larry David for creating the episode that cost him his job. The lawsuit was dismissed.

This appears to be a &quot;mutation&quot; of an actual suit related to the episode. 

The man in question was a Miller Brewing Co. executive who discussed the episode with a female co-worker. He was fired, but the suit was against the employer for wrongful discharge rather than against the show. He got a jury verdict - don't know if it was upheld on appeal. I'll run down the real story when I get the time.... [[User:Ellsworth|Ellsworth]] 18:56, 3 February 2007 (UTC)

== &quot;Dolores&quot; relation to car and fish ==

Early in the episode Jerry mentions her name also has something to do with cars or fish. I'm fairly sure the car references here is the &quot;Delorean.&quot; The fish reference could be the fairly obvious (and rather crude) allusion to the female body part in question, but to make that connection, you have to connect Dolores to the female body part, a clue that only occurs later in the episode. Anyone else have a fish connection idea?  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/24.174.91.107|24.174.91.107]] ([[User talk:24.174.91.107|talk]]) 00:15, 23 May 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:Quite possible, if the name is Dolores....see [[DeLorean DMC-12]] --&lt;span style=&quot;background: #CCEECC;&quot;&gt;[[User:Kickstart70|Kickstart70]]&lt;/span&gt;-&lt;span style=&quot;background: #CCCCEE;&quot;&gt;[[User talk:Kickstart70|T]]&lt;/span&gt;-&lt;span style=&quot;background: #EECCEE;&quot;&gt;[[Special:Contributions/Kickstart70|C]]&lt;/span&gt; 13:57, 20 October 2008 (UTC)

Maybe [[dorado]]? Aka mahi-mahi  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/71.230.20.102|71.230.20.102]] ([[User talk:71.230.20.102|talk]]) 04:05, 17 January 2014 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Unsourced material ==

The article said that:
:The name in the script was originally ''Chloris'', however, the studio audience was asked to try to guess the woman's name. One woman guessed &quot;Dolores&quot;, and the ending was changed since the name worked much better.
What is the source to this? - [[User:Tbsdy lives|Tbsdy lives]] ([[User talk:Tbsdy lives|talk]]) 08:05, 5 September 2008 (UTC)

Would have been better if the woman's name was Regina.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/124.149.65.65|124.149.65.65]] ([[User talk:124.149.65.65|talk]]) 14:06, 28 March 2010 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

In one of the scenes George has a video in hand before he sits on Jerry;s couch. The video is Pretty Women. Jason Alexander was in Pretty Women.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/108.198.172.77|108.198.172.77]] ([[User talk:108.198.172.77|talk]]) 03:03, 19 June 2013 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Mulva ==

Mulva is the name of an archaeological site in Spain.



see http://www.property-net-spain.com/provinces/sevilla/la_vega_del_guadalquivir.html

&quot;Villanueva del Río y Minas 

...

A rough track leads from Villanueva to the impressive and extensive Roman ruins of Mulva, 8km away. This well preserved archaeological site date back to the 4BC and is beautifully situated.&quot;



Has it ever been used as a woman's first name?  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/128.197.130.13|128.197.130.13]] ([[User talk:128.197.130.13|talk]]) 19:34, 16 January 2009 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

==The art==
Does anyone know who created the art in real life and what happened to it in real life? __[[User:Meco|meco]] ([[User talk:Meco|talk]]) 08:54, 23 December 2010 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>