<article id="2961153" title=Talk:Proto-Baltic language>
	<talkpage id="2961153" title="Talk:Proto-Baltic language">
Then hypothetically and theoretically there was a Proto-Baltic people (Proto-Balts).

I've got to do more research on the Baltic region, peoples, and languages....
[[User:Gringo300|Gringo300]] 12:23, 21 October 2005 (UTC)

:The late [[Marija Gimbutas]] wrote a book called The Balts that gives a pretty good overview of the subject. The scholarly consensus is that Proto-Baltic peoples probably existed, arriving in the Baltic region around 2500 BCE. I've seen articles about this in the back issues of the Journal of Indo-European Studies (JIES) and various archaeology journals.

:On the other hand, there also seems to be an emerging consensus that there was never any such thing as Balto-Slavic. Proto-Slavic is very recent (Iron Age) and is apparently a hybrid of North Iranian (e.g., Scythian) and some variety of west-central Baltic. However, the subject is also political. Russian nationalists, etc., keep insisting Proto-Balto-Slavic must have existed so that they justify their annexation of Lithuania and Latvia. [[User:Zyxwv99|Zyxwv99]] ([[User talk:Zyxwv99|talk]]) 20:30, 3 December 2011 (UTC)

== There's no Proto-Baltic language ==

that is reconstructable by comparative method. Almost all the isoglosses that connect Baltic languages, and that leave Slavic languages aside are either 1) trivial 2) provably secondary development among already differentiated Baltic dialects after the separation of Slavic 3) do not display any kind of relative chronology (the most important thing!). There's just too much mismatch between Western and Eastern Baltic - their common ancestor must necessarily go all the way to Balto-Slavic period. No wonder this article is a two sentence stub ^_^ --[[User:Ivan Štambuk|Ivan Štambuk]] ([[User talk:Ivan Štambuk|talk]]) 12:04, 25 April 2008 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>