<article id="4692503" title=Talk:Garmin>
	<talkpage id="4692503" title="Talk:Garmin">
{{talkheader}}
{{WikiProject Kansas City|importance=low|class=c}}

wow talk about a &quot;lively&quot; discussion page :( &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/141.157.198.75|141.157.198.75]] ([[User talk:141.157.198.75|talk]]) &lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt;

heh yah, but its a sign of a good article when nobody's bitching about it.  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/68.161.204.86|68.161.204.86]] ([[User talk:68.161.204.86|talk]]) 00:05, 24 November 2007 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Expand product list ==

There are so many Garmin models, it seems worthy of a full product list (something approaching what is done for [[List of Nokia products]] on a smaller scale). - [[User:KeithTyler|Keith D. Tyler]] [[User_talk:KeithTyler|&amp;para;]] 21:41, 20 June 2007 (UTC)

I have started on the list - [[List of Garmin products]]  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Ryan2845|Ryan2845]] ([[User talk:Ryan2845|talk]] • 
[[Special:Contributions/Ryan2845|contribs]]) 21:22, 2 November 2007 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== List of Garmin Maps ==

Garmin has many differnt types of maps. There should be a page on all these maps and the latest updated versions.
The same should be done with maps of TomTom, Navman, Magellin, Naviq, etc

== Other &quot;Brands&quot;? ==

This is not about other &quot;brands&quot; - it's about specific *models*. This section is mis-titled.
 [[User:Rob Cranfill|Rob Cranfill]] ([[User talk:Rob Cranfill|talk]]) 23:10, 19 February 2009 (UTC)

== Highly promotional tone in avionics section ==
What's going on in that section? Before I started editing, it was written in very enthusiastic promotional tone and I suspect maybe someone who is closely connected or a big fan of these devices wrote this section. [[User:Cantaloupe2|Cantaloupe2]] ([[User talk:Cantaloupe2|talk]]) 13:48, 12 June 2013 (UTC)

== Founding History ==

I came here looking for info on the name &quot;Garmin&quot;, eventually finding it elsewhere (a composition of the founders' first names Gary and Min), so I added a reference to this. Still, the founding part remains a bit vague. The current state of the article mentions the company originally being founded as &quot;ProNav&quot;. I have been searching the web a bit, and there seems to have been some copyright troubles here versus someone owning the name &quot;NavPro&quot;, which then led to the renaming into the safe &quot;Garmin&quot; around 1991. However, I cannot find a reliable source for this, it is all blog and forum posts, or generated pages on sites that collect company data, or the Garmin Wikia page (http://garmin.wikia.com/wiki/Garmin), which may not be official. Does anyone have a good source on how Garmin came to be? [[User:Elanguescence|Elanguescence]] ([[User talk:Elanguescence|talk]]) 10:22, 28 December 2013 (UTC)

==eTrex hacking==
I was wondering whether other software can be put on the eTrex 10; could be useful for people that just want to show the current GPS location (longitude, latitude) and no (regional) maps. See http://etrex.webz.cz/points.html
and http://cs.astronomy.com/asy/equipment/f/12/t/21994.aspx 
[[Special:Contributions/81.242.253.217|81.242.253.217]] ([[User talk:81.242.253.217|talk]]) 14:53, 13 May 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>