<article id="4336387" title=User talk:Res q68>
	<talkpage id="4336387" title="User talk:Res q68">
== '''Welcome to Wikipedia!''' ==
Dear {{PAGENAME}}:
[[Wikipedia:Welcome, newcomers|Welcome]] to [[Wikipedia]], a free and open-content encyclopedia.  I hope you enjoy contributing.  To help get you settled in, I thought you might find the following pages useful:

* [[Wikipedia:Five pillars|Five Pillars of Wikipedia]]
* [[Wikipedia:Community Portal|Community Portal]]
* [[Wikipedia:FAQ|Frequently Asked Questions]]
* [[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]]
* [[Wikipedia:Revert|How to revert to a previous version of a page]]
* [[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
* [[Wikipedia:Copyrights|Copyrights]]
* [[Wikipedia:Shortcuts|Shortcuts]]

Don't worry too much about being perfect.  Very few of us are!  Just in case you are not perfect, click [[Wikipedia:Avoiding common mistakes|here]] to see how you can avoid making common mistakes.

If you are stuck, and looking for help, please come to the '''[[Wikipedia:New contributors' help page|New contributors' help page]]''', where experienced Wikipedians can answer any queries you have! Or, you can just type '''&lt;code&gt;{&amp;#123;helpme}}&lt;/code&gt;''' on your user page, and someone will show up shortly to answer your questions. 

Wikipedians try to follow a strict policy of [[Wikipedia:Please do not bite the newcomers|never biting new users]].  If you are unsure of how to do something, you are welcome to ask a more experienced user such as an [[Wikipedia:Administrator|administrator]].  One last bit of advice: please sign any dicussion comment with four tildes (~&amp;#126;~~).  The software will automatically convert this into your signature which can be altered in the &quot;Preferences&quot; tab at the top of the screen.  I hope I have not overwhelmed you with information.  If you need any help just let me know.  Once again welcome to Wikipedia, and don't forget to [[Wikipedia:User page|tell us about]] [[User:{{PAGENAME}}|yourself]] and be [[Wikipedia:Bold|'''BOLD''']]!

You can post a question on my talk page if you need to.--[[user:ikiroid|ikiroid]] | ([[user talk:ikiroid|talk]]) 23:36, 9 March 2006 (UTC)

== English/Chinese article translation ==
Re: [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=User_talk:Changlc&amp;curid=959020&amp;diff=45662618&amp;oldid=45492029]
: Can you give me more details on the article you want translated? Thanks. -[[User:Changlc|Loren]] 12:14, 27 March 2006 (UTC)
:: I'd suggest that you go ahead and write the article in English or see if there's a preexisting article you can add to, once some other people have gone over it and a stable version has been reached then we can decide how best to go about the translation to other languages. Good luck! -[[User:Changlc|Loren]] 18:41, 28 March 2006 (UTC)

Hi Res q68, I would love to help in any way possible. However, I will be taking a wikibreak from 23/5 till 26/5, and from 3/6 till 16/6, so I may not be replying your messages in the next few days. - [[User:SpLoT|splot]] 11:06, 21 May 2006 (UTC)

== Help with editing ==
Don't feel shy to ask me something about Wikipedia&amp;mdash;I'll do whatever I can to help. Most of wikipedia uses a modified form of HTML, so commands like &lt;nowiki&gt;&lt;center&gt;&lt;/center&gt;&lt;/nowiki&gt; and &lt;nowiki&gt;&lt;br&gt;&lt;/nowiki&gt; are the same on Wikipedia as they are on the rest of the net. We sign our comments with three tildes (like this: &lt;nowiki&gt;~~~&lt;/nowiki&gt;). Making it four tildes instead of three adds a timestamp. You can look at [[Wikipedia:How to edit a page]] and [[Wikipedia:Manual of Style]] for more information, they helped me a lot. Now to your userpage: For starters, you might want to add some [[Wikipedia:Userboxes|userboxes]] to your webpage. They help tell others users about your skills in other languages, as well as your interests, hobbies, and areas of expertise. There are two ways of doing this:

1. You can add a customized userbox template, where you create a list of userboxes in between a template:
{{Boxboxtop|This is my awesome userbox template}}
{{User en}}
{{User zh-2}}
{{User es-1}}
{{User:UBX/chess}}
{{User:Scepia/cvg}}
{{Boxboxbottom}}

'''&lt;nowiki&gt;{{Boxboxtop|This is my awesome userbox template}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;
'''&lt;br&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;{{User en}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;
'''&lt;br&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;{{User zh-2}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;
'''&lt;br&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;{{User es-1}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;
'''&lt;br&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;{{User chess}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;
'''&lt;br&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;{{User:Scepia/cvg}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;
'''&lt;br&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;{{Boxbottom}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;

It ends up looking like the following on the right:

2. Your second option is to add a [[Wikipedia:Babel|Babel template]]. To add a standard Babel template, add the following: '''&lt;nowiki&gt;{{Babel|(First userbox)|(Second Userbox)|(Third Userbox)|...}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;'''. For example, '''&lt;nowiki&gt;{{Babel|en|zh-2|java-4|chess}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;''' looks like this:
{{Babel|en|zh-2|java-4|:UBX/chess|}}

Feel free to come to me with any more questions you have, I'll do my best to help ;)--&lt;tt&gt;[[User:Ikiroid/Esperanza|&lt;font color=&quot;green&quot;&gt;'''The'''&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;/tt&gt; [[Imaginary unit|&lt;font color=&quot;black&quot;&gt;'''i'''&lt;/font&gt;]][[user:ikiroid|&lt;font color=&quot;blue&quot;&gt;'''kiro'''&lt;/font&gt;]][[Ego, superego, and id|&lt;font color=&quot;black&quot;&gt;'''id'''&lt;/font&gt;]] ([[user talk:ikiroid|&lt;small&gt;talk/parler/hablar/paroli/说/話&lt;/small&gt;]]) 02:16, 28 March 2006 (UTC)

== The answer to your question.... ==
I'll try to answer both of your questions in one message. You asked me if other wikipedias will recognize your english account, and the answer is no. I ran into this problem too. It's a bit of a pain, but you have to set up a seperate account on each wikipedia you would like to work on, and then you write links on your userpage to the other language accounts. For example, at the bottom of my userpage there is:

&lt;nowiki&gt;[[eo:Vikipediisto:Ikiroid]]&lt;/nowiki&gt;

&lt;nowiki&gt;[[es:Usuario:Ikiroid]]&lt;/nowiki&gt;

&lt;nowiki&gt;[[fr:Utilisateur:Ikiroid]]&lt;/nowiki&gt;

&lt;nowiki&gt;[[ja:利用者:Ikiroid]]&lt;/nowiki&gt;

&lt;nowiki&gt;[[simple:User:Ikiroid]]&lt;/nowiki&gt;

&lt;nowiki&gt;[[zh:User:Ikiroid]]&lt;/nowiki&gt;

Each of these links to a (technically different) account under the same name on each wikipedia.

And about the English-to Chinese translation: I'd be happy to help, although I have a very limited knowledge of chinese. I started learning it at the end of January. So, the best place to request a translation of a specific text is at [[Wikipedia:Reference desk/Language]], or, on the chinese wikipedia at [[zh:Wikipedia talk:Guestbook for non-Chinese-speakers]]. If it concerns an article on Wikipedia, you'd best go to [[Wikipedia:Babel]]. If you need more help or if I wasn't clear, feel free to come ask me another question. Just leave it on [[User talk:Ikiroid|my talk page]] instead of my userpage. Good luck!! &lt;tt&gt;:)&lt;/tt&gt;--&lt;tt&gt;[[User:Ikiroid/Esperanza|&lt;font color=&quot;green&quot;&gt;'''The'''&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;/tt&gt; [[Imaginary unit|&lt;font color=&quot;black&quot;&gt;'''i'''&lt;/font&gt;]][[user:ikiroid|&lt;font color=&quot;blue&quot;&gt;'''kiro'''&lt;/font&gt;]][[Ego, superego, and id|&lt;font color=&quot;black&quot;&gt;'''id'''&lt;/font&gt;]] &lt;small&gt;([[user talk:ikiroid|talk parler hablar paroli 说 話し parlar]])&lt;/small&gt; 18:58, 21 April 2006 (UTC)

----
About the English to Japanese translation you asked me to do, I'm sorry but I only do Japanese to Engish. You'll always want to have a person translate into his or her native language, so you should probably be looking for a native speaker of Japanese.

David [[User:Everyguy|Everyguy]] 02:44, 26 April 2006 (UTC)

== Leaky gut ==

You inserted material on a large number of pages, ranging from [[scleroderma]] to [[dermatitis herpetiformis]], referring to Dr Gallands' theories on how to treat these conditions. I've removed most of them momentarily. One practicioner's approach is not automatically notable, unless you can prove conclusively that there are 1000s of practicioners using this approach (such as echinacea for the common cold, magnetic insoles for plantar fasciitis etc).

This is in no way meant to discredit Galland's approach, but we simply cannot mention every practicioner's treatment. When mainstream medical treatments are mentioned, we generally restrict ourself to those practiced widely (preferably those endorsed by professional group's official guidelines). [[User:Jfdwolff|JFW]]&amp;nbsp;|&amp;nbsp;[[User_talk:Jfdwolff|&lt;small&gt;T@lk&lt;/small&gt;]] 09:11, 9 July 2006 (UTC)

:Thanks for your message. I do not need to be lectured on the nature of Wikipedia, nor do I represent any form of &quot;racketteering&quot;, your use of which I regard as ''[[WP:NPA|ad hominem]]''. I also think your remark &quot;Wikipedia is not about willful ignorance, nor criminal negligence&quot; is completely off-topic and harmful to an open discussion here.

:I asked for some evidence that Dr Galland is not alone in his approach. The evidence you have given me is completely unrelated. Despite what you say, I am actually warmly in favour of including non-mainstream approaches, even those pioneered by people who have not attended Harvard, but not without at least some evidence that it is more than just their cult of personality. If Andrew Weil writes about it, then it may be notable. If QuackWatch writes about it, there is a fair chance it's notable. But I do not regard Dr Gallands' website as a [[WP:RS|reliable source]] to support claims that his views are widely practiced and supported.

:Much of alternative medicine suffers from this problem on Wikipedia. But that is not because doctors are keeping it out. Rather it's the paucity of good supportive sources, and the reluctance of followers to be regarded as a &quot;non-standard approach&quot;. [[User:Jfdwolff|JFW]]&amp;nbsp;|&amp;nbsp;[[User_talk:Jfdwolff|&lt;small&gt;T@lk&lt;/small&gt;]] 21:33, 20 July 2006 (UTC)

== Re:Fixing an article ==

I've responded to your question on my page. Cheers, '''[[User:Ikiroid|The ikiroid]] ([[User talk:Ikiroid|talk]]·[[User:Ikiroid/Desk|desk]]·[[User talk:Ikiroid/Help Me Improve|Advise me]])''' 21:50, 28 October 2006 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>