<article id="247145" title=Talk:Politics of Guam>
	<talkpage id="247145" title="Talk:Politics of Guam">
{{WikiProject Micronesia|class=Stub|importance=high|Guam=yes}}
{{WikiProject Politics|class=stub|importance=mid}}
===Sources?===
Where are the sources for any of this seemingly speculative information?  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/216.67.53.20|216.67.53.20]] ([[User talk:216.67.53.20|talk]]) 05:16, 12 December 2009 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

==early comments==
Hmm. It seems Bill Clinton is still leader of Guam ;-) [[User:Cimon avaro|Cimon Avaro on a pogo stick]] 05:09 16 Jun 2003 (UTC)

Could the autor or autors of the Background section cite the sources/provide references. I'm currently researching Guam's statehood or commonwealth aspirations. Thank You. --[[User:Afreytes|Aníbal Freytes]] 01:53, 6 February 2007 (UTC)


===updates needed===

Robert Torres is now Chief Justice, the page needs updating.  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/66.90.238.228|66.90.238.228]] ([[User talk:66.90.238.228|talk]]) 14:14, 21 July 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Votes ==

Why include a votes column if we don't know how many there are? -[[User:raylu|raylu]]&lt;sup&gt;[[User_talk:raylu|T]]&lt;/sup&gt; 03:34, 18 April 2006 (UTC)
:It must be available somewhere. So there is place to add it.

== Important notice ==

The [[Outline of Guam#Government and politics of Guam|government section of the &quot;Outline of Guam&quot;]] needs to be checked, corrected, and completed -- ''especially the subsections for the government branches''.

When the country outlines were created, temporary data (that matched most of the countries but not all) was used to speed up the process.  Those countries for which the temporary data does not match must be replaced with the correct information.

Please check that this country's outline is not in error.

If you have any questions or comments, please contact [[User talk:The Transhumanist|&lt;i&gt;The Transhumanist&lt;/i&gt;]] .

Thank you.

== Should this page be removed? ==

This page cites no sources and is writen in a very POV manner.  If there is a large movement in Guam requesting independance shouldn't someone have written an article about it? A UN report perhaps? A petition to congress? Anything? This Article has been taged as lacking sources since 2007 and no sources have emerged. --[[User:Drewder|Drewder]] ([[User talk:Drewder|talk]]) 06:10, 10 March 2012 (UTC)

:Welcome to Wikipedia! One core piece of advice I always give to newcomers is to [[WP:BOLD|be bold]].  If you think the article should be deleted, Wikipedia has [[WP:DEL|deletion processes]] you can use yourself to nominate the article for deletion.  &amp;mdash;[[User:Darkwind|Darkwind]] ([[User talk:Darkwind|talk]]) 06:16, 10 March 2012 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>