<article id="48006" title=Talk:Nicotinamide>
	<talkpage id="48006" title="Talk:Nicotinamide">
{{WikiProject Chemicals|class=start|importance=mid}}
{{WPPHARM|class=Start|importance=high}}

==Nicotinic acid vs. nicotinamide==

The beginning section of this article seems confused. Nicotinic acid is not converted to nicotinamide before being converted to NAD. It's converted after. Nicontinic acid first forms NaMN -&gt; NaAD -&gt; NAD then is deconverted back to nicotinamide from NAD like everything else that forms NAD. But saying it's converted to nicotinamide in vivo makes it seem like nicotinic acid is just a bad precursor for nicotinamide, when in fact the only common pathway happens after the conversion to NAD, which isn't an important fact. http://jpet.aspetjournals.org/content/324/3/883/F3.large.jpg  &lt;small class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—&amp;nbsp;Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/99.7.59.130|99.7.59.130]] ([[User talk:99.7.59.130|talk]]) 09:52, 3 December 2014 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

==Nicotinamide==
It is??? I thought it was a B vitamin. -- [[user:Marj Tiefert|Marj Tiefert]], Saturday, April 6, 2002

== Inositol Nicotinate ==

I know that there's a diffence between nicotinimide and nicotinic acid but what about Inositol Nicotinate? I noticed that GNC and some other retailers are selling Inositol Nicotinate labeled as niacin. What's the difference? &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Interestedperson|Interestedperson]] ([[User talk:Interestedperson|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Interestedperson|contribs]]) 15:58, 3 July 2007&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned2 --&gt;

==confusion with &quot;Nicotine&quot;?==

I think there are grounds for concern that many persons are misled by what appears to be old-fashioned nomenclature, i.e. the appearance of derivatives of the root word &quot;nicotin-&quot; in numerous names of substances related to Vitamin B&lt;sub&gt;3&lt;/sub&gt; or Niacin.  The history of this confusion should be researched and cited in this article.  It can have the effect of legitimizing nicotine or making some persons believe nicotine is a vitamin or otherwise related to the medical uses of niacinamide.  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Tokerdesigner|Tokerdesigner]] ([[User talk:Tokerdesigner|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Tokerdesigner|contribs]]) 19:28, 9 April 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:See [[Niacin#History]]--[[User:Tea with toast|Tea with toast]] ([[User talk:Tea with toast|talk]]) 02:54, 6 September 2009 (UTC)

== The Chinese translations of the chemical are based on the following.... ==

* http://www.hifda.gov.cn:1080/default.aspx?Act=SM&amp;v=&amp;Page=1109
* http://www.hda.gov.cn/CL0113/3725.html
--[[Special:Contributions/222.64.216.27|222.64.216.27]] ([[User talk:222.64.216.27|talk]]) 08:49, 4 February 2010 (UTC)

== Merger proposal ==
{{mergeto|Niacin|discuss=Talk:Niacin#Merger proposal|date=May 2015}}
{{Discussion top|result=The result of this discussion was not to merge[[User:CharlesHBennett|CharlesHBennett]] ([[User talk:CharlesHBennett|talk]]) 13:19, 7 July 2015 (UTC)}}
I propose that [[Nicotinamide]] be merged into [[Niacin]]. The latter article already has a section explaining the historic origin of the confusing name nicotinic, as well as a careful discussion of the different pharmacologic effects of the acid and amide forms of the vitamin in various doses. Having it all in one place would lessen the chance that people will think cigarettes contain a vitamin, or that one form of the vitamin is entirely harmless while the other should never be taken because it is &quot;toxic&quot;.[[User:CharlesHBennett|CharlesHBennett]] ([[User talk:CharlesHBennett|talk]]) 05:11, 15 May 2015 (UTC)
*'''Keep both''' Due to the apparent prophylactic effect of nicotinamide against non-melanoma skin cancer it should not be merged as merger will result in confusion for some people. There are issues including possible toxicity of nicotinamide and uselessness of taking niacin as a skin cancer prophylactic. [[User:Fred Bauder]] [[User talk:Fred Bauder|Talk]] 11:15, 15 May 2015 (UTC)
*'''Oppose'''. The argument for merger is nonsense and is exceedingly idiotic. Basically, they're separate substances with separate sets of effects. If anything, it's the merge that will cause more of a confusion. As the article asserts, nicotinamide is not toxic in doses up to 3 grams per day. Nicotine is not &quot;toxic&quot; either if consumed in the right dose, typically just a few milligrams. As an alternative, I don't care if this article gets moved to Niacinamide instead. --[[User:IO Device|IO Device]] ([[User talk:IO Device|talk]]) 13:55, 15 May 2015 (UTC)
* '''Keep both but move nicotinamide to niacinamide''' I am persuaded by the arguments to keep both, but move [[nicotinamide]] to [[niacinamide]]. As Bauder points out they are two different substances, more different than, say, the several forms of vitamin D or vitamin B-12.  Each article should reference the other, pointing out that they are nearly equivalent in small doses, i.e. as forms of the vitamin B-3, but have different effects, both therapeutic and toxic, in large doses.[[User:CharlesHBennett|CharlesHBennett]] ([[User talk:CharlesHBennett|talk]]) 02:19, 9 June 2015 (UTC)
::If that's what you want, it's probably best to close this section and for you to create a new section with your proposed move. Users can then comment on the new suggestion. --[[User:IO Device|IO Device]] ([[User talk:IO Device|talk]]) 03:28, 9 June 2015 (UTC)
{{Discussion bottom}}
{{Old merge full|otherpage=Niacin|date=2015-05-15|result=not to merge.}}

== Move to Niacinamide instead of merge with Niacin ==

In view of the approximate consensus reached in the above discussion of a proposed merger with Niacin, I propose that instead this article be moved to Niacinamide.  The parallel names, Niacin and Niacinamide, would better indicate the chemical similarity and relation between the two substances than the present names Niacin and Nicotinamide, while their different pharmacological properties can be better conveyed by keeping the two articles separate than by merging them, as I had formerly proposed.[[User:CharlesHBennett|CharlesHBennett]] ([[User talk:CharlesHBennett|talk]]) 20:13, 5 July 2015 (UTC)

== Biochemistry? ==

I know biology - I don't know pathology etc.

Can anybody create a section on how and where this stuff participates rather than just having a nobody-except-medics-knows habraquadabrah with references to diseases: &quot;it is used in treating schmatibulosis quadrabupulos&quot;, I don't know. There is a holystic approach, the main systems, blah-blah-blah. I came here and '''I ONLY LEARNT''' that this chemical '''is''' a vitamin, within group B, all right, but I cannot possibly get anything else from this article as it is now.
Nothing.
Nada. Zero.
[[Special:Contributions/95.72.9.244|95.72.9.244]] ([[User talk:95.72.9.244|talk]]), Josh  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size:smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt; — Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|undated]] comment added 17:37, 21 July 2015 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!--Template:Undated--&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>