<article id="10873376" title=Talk:Battalion 3-16 (Honduras)>
	<talkpage id="10873376" title="Talk:Battalion 3-16 (Honduras)">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject United States|class=B|importance=Low|USGov=Yes|USGov-importance=Low}}
{{WikiProject Central America|Honduras=yes}}
{{WikiProject Cold War|class=B}}
}}

== Chile ==
The source cited for the Chilean involvement doesn't seem a trusty source, itself not explaining any proof of the supposed Chilean training, something that as a Chilean I've never heard of. I don't think it's true. &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Viva Chile|Viva Chile]] ([[User talk:Viva Chile|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Viva Chile|contribs]]) 22:52, 21 April 2011 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== John Negroponte ==
An anon IP user deleted the wikilink to [[John Negroponte]] in the see also section. I just restored it. Negroponte's links to the US support of Battalion 316 has come up repeatedly at his various Senate confirmation hearings and is frequently cited in media coverage. A simple google search of [http://www.google.com/search?q=negroponte+battalion+316&amp;ie=utf-8&amp;oe=utf-8&amp;aq=t&amp;rls=org.mozilla:en-US:official&amp;client=firefox-a Negroponte Battalion 316] shows many solid sources discussing Negroponte's relationship with the Battalion.[[User:Notmyrealname|Notmyrealname]] ([[User talk:Notmyrealname|talk]]) 20:31, 3 June 2009 (UTC)

== possible name change ==
i think the name of this article should probably become '''Intelligence Battalion 3-16''', with redirects from the alternative names (the ones with 3-16 or 316, probably not the others, since they're more generic and probably less well known) but it would be better to get some more solid references before finalising a name. There's no point having constant name changes.

Please find more [[WP:RS|solid references]] and comment as to if/when you think we should change the name (i.e. move the page along with any discussion). [[User:Boud|Boud]] ([[User talk:Boud|talk]]) 20:03, 1 August 2009 (UTC)

:i decided to go ahead and change to '''Battalion 3-16 (Honduras)''' - since there was no discussion, it's unlikely to be controversial, and since it should be easier to change before people start adding lots of links (though there are quite a few already). Apparently a bot should clean up later. [[User:Boud|Boud]] ([[User talk:Boud|talk]]) 20:26, 2 August 2009 (UTC)

::Thanks! I fully support the name change. Seems to be the official name based on the primary sources.[[User:Notmyrealname|Notmyrealname]] ([[User talk:Notmyrealname|talk]]) 15:24, 3 August 2009 (UTC)

== Known members ==
i guess the implication of the adjective &quot;known&quot; is that there were most likely many ''unknown'' members? i think this is reasonable and does not count as OR. The unit was secret, so information, in the wikipedia sense, on the composition of the death squad depends on various investigative efforts, FOI requests, etc. and can reasonably be expected to be missing many highly relevant pieces of information.

i think we do need to be careful about [[WP:BLP]] - i've commented out all (four) people in the list for whom i did not find any source. If you edit the section, you'll see that they are still there: [[User:Boud|Boud]] ([[User talk:Boud|talk]]) 21:47, 3 August 2009 (UTC)

:Yes, there are countless unknown members of Battallion 3-16. However, these are the ones named, primarily in human rights documents or scholarship on the SOA. All of the names that lacked sources are back with sources now. All I did was a google search for 'Battallion 3-16 &lt;name&gt;' to find them. [[User:Rsheptak|Rsheptak]] ([[User talk:Rsheptak|talk]]) 00:19, 4 August 2009 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>