<article id="4610105" title=Talk:Kingdom Hearts II/Archive 2>
	<talkpage id="4610105" title="Talk:Kingdom Hearts II/Archive 2">
{{talkarchive}}
== One Final Verification of VAs ==
I realize that there's been multiple sites citing VAs for KH2. However, the site to take the full cake, Square Enix's website has released names for many VAs, so I guess you can make a bunch of the VAs fully confirmed. [http://www.square-enix.com/na/company/press/2006/0208/] --[[User:Terraguy|Terraguy]] 06:16, 9 February 2006 (UTC)

== *sigh* ==

I give up. The only reason I was changing DiZ's crediting is because I thought most people hadn't played the game, and if they came here to see the definitive cast list (like I would) they'd have one of the biggest plot twists that isn't revealed until almost the end of the game spoiled. 

Yeah, the credits say he's DiZ (Ansem), but SquareEnix's press release and such only says DiZ. Gee, I wonder why they wouldn't want to disclose his identity. Probably the same reason they don't say 'Xenahort (Riku)' and 'Roxas (Sora's Nobody)'. I mean, point made or am I talking to a wall here?

[[User:TehBeefWhistle|TehBeefWhistle]] 14:27, 10 February 2006 (UTC)Corey
*If the SE press release told you to jump off a bridge would you do it? Stupid analogy, I know, but it's kind of like what you're saying. The press release also spells DiZ's name as &quot;Diz&quot; and Naminé's name as &quot;Namine&quot;. Should we now change all mentions of their names to the way they're spelled in the press release? [[User:Geg|Geg]] 23:09, 10 February 2006 (UTC)
**&quot;Not all visitors will recognize the site as an encyclopedia, which should strive first to inform, spoilers or not.&quot;([[WP:SW]]) If you think it should be removed, then why not go through the entire [[DiZ]] article and remove any reference to his true identity? It simply can't be done. Same goes for Xemnas/Enigmatic Man. [[User:Zero1328|Zero1328]] 05:44, 11 February 2006 (UTC)

----
Wow...in 22 years of life, I've never read something so stupid. My point is obviously lost on you guys, as I said in my initial edit that people could check the article for DiZ and so forth (check the history). Oh well, do what you want, I'm just sorry for people who are curious to see who is returning and who is not, and find one of the biggest spoilers in the game disclosed. 

BTW, is it just me, or is it asinine to say &quot;If SE's press release said...&quot;, but at the same time justify the listing by saying, &quot;SE's credits at the end of the game list him as DiZ(Ansem), so it stays that way.&quot; Kinda contradictory, don't you think? Still, do what you want. My whole point is, they don't list him as &quot;DiZ(Ansem)&quot; until the end of the game...y'know, after you beat it. So...feh, nevermind. Tired of repeating myself.

[[User:TehBeefWhistle|TehBeefWhistle]] 19:27, 12 February 2006 (UTC)Corey

**Added a spoiler tag. That should set matters down. [[User:Regulus Tera|Regulus Tera]] 04:07, 20 February 2006 (UTC)

==Sora's Forms==

What's the difference between The Final Form and the Master Form? I know that in both forms Sora merges with both Donald and Goofy, but what's the main difference (apart from the clothes)?

I know that Final Form is probably the strongest form. Sora uses the Oathkeeper and Oblivion Keyblades and while in this form, you go crazy. You can fly, run super-fast. Most enemies wouldn't have a hope. [[User:Master Vinaki|Master Vinaki]] 12:32, 11 February 2006 (EST)

Master Form (yellow) is ''actually'' slightly weaker than Brave and Wisdom in their respective aspects, but the combos are insanely long (longer than Brave by a landslide, with kickass finishing hits). You can also double-jump (you know, X twice) in Master.
In Final Form (white), ''you can fly Neverland-style''. Unlike Brave and Master, where you hold both keyblades in your hands, and Wisdom, where one keyblade is floating, in Final, BOTH keyblades are floating around you and your statistics are out the roof, as well as your attack combo which affects both ground and aerial enemies.
That should be it. --[[User:'Ivan|&amp;#39;Ivan]] 02:26, 11 February 2006 (UTC)

:What I meant was: If you have to merge with both Donald and Goofy for both forms, what does one do to choose Master or Final?
::Master is chosen, Final is '''random''' when trying to trying to Drive, I believe, after going to 'The World That Never Was' for the first time. I'm not sure about Final. --[[User:'Ivan|&amp;#39;Ivan]] 20:22, 12 February 2006 (UTC)
:::You click Drive from the Command Menu, select Final Form, and then click it.
::::You use any two partners, but it represents a Drive of Sora and Roxas.
:::::Whoa whoa whoa, I didn't know that you could choose Final Form. I thought only Brave, Wisdom, and Master could be ''chosen''. The form you're talking about 'is' white, right? --[[User:'Ivan|&amp;#39;Ivan]] 02:00, 16 February 2006 (UTC)
::::::After changing to Final form for the first time, you can change into Final form at will afterwords. But turning into Final form for the first time is random, as you described. You don't need both Donald and Goofy in your current party to drive to Master or Final, any two members is fine. No idea what you're talking about when mentioning a Drive of Sora and Roxas, though. [[User:Zero1328|Zero1328]] 08:04, 16 February 2006 (UTC)
:::::::Aha. Thanks a lot. So, I think we've answered this completely, though in separate parts. All done. --[[User:'Ivan|&amp;#39;Ivan]] 16:10, 16 February 2006 (UTC)
::::::::When you say Drive of Sora and Roxas, I think you mean the fact that Sora's clothes look abit like those of Roxas. He also dual-wields Oathkeeper and Oblivion. Aren't those Roxas' fave keyblades? [[User:Master Vinaki|Master Vinaki]] 16:31, 20 February 2006 (EST)
:::::::::Yes, the white/silver clothing of Final Form is reminiscent of Roxas' clothes, and yes, Roxas' preferred keyblades are Oathkeeper and Oblivion, as witnessed in a cutscene late game in The World That Never Was. --[[User:'Ivan|&amp;#39;Ivan]] 15:27, 21 February 2006 (UTC)

::The physical differences between Master and Final form are enormous. Master Form is basically as others have stated, a hybrid of Brave and Wisdom forms. Slightly weaker in each regard (physical and magic) but combined together to make a unique style. Master form has a unique combo in the air and on the ground and it automatically gives you double jump. Final Form makes Sora float along the ground, gives you glide automatically, makes Sora jump insanely high, and gives him a very unique combo as he uses the keyblades with his mind apparently (they float around). When you jump and when you glide..you automatically attack anything close to Sora, and Sora is given some unique magic combo's as well...such as a Thunder storm attack if Thunder/Thundaga is done three consecutive times and so fourth. In general, everything Sora does is better. In my opinion, once Final Form is leveled up it honestly makes the other forms arguably obsolete aside from perhaps Wisdom Form since its a long distance specialized form. Sora is faster, his physical combo ability is insane (anything caught in the air by you us dead basically), his magic ability is insane...its pretty much the FINAL form. Its drawback is its random aquirement, it comes out at random once you aquire Master form (and supposedly when you get to the final area). Like anti form, if you drive into one of the other forms at this point you'll have a chance to trigger Final Form. Once you do it even once however, you can become FF anytime as it becomes selectable.

::Also...Final Form levels up by killing Nobody enemies ONLY. No other enemy types will level it...so it takes less enemies to level to conpensate.--[[User:Kiyosuki|Kiyosuki]] 11:10, 27 February 2006 (UTC)
:::Uh....yeah. That's what the article says. --[[User:'Ivan|&amp;#39;Ivan]] 15:17, 27 February 2006 (UTC)
:::::Nothing this detailed would last 5 minutes on the actual wiki. lol --[[User:Kiyosuki|Kiyosuki]] 09:10, 1 March 2006 (UTC)

==EGM Magazine==
Did you guys know that Egm has English screens: dialogue, battle screens. Most people might have actually seen the article but these pictures rock. 
Check them out at: http://www.kh-2.net
[[User:Master Vinaki|Master Vinaki]] 14:14, 11 February 2006 (EST)
:(professional Geg) The talk page is meant for discussing how to make the article better, not for discussion on whatever the article is about. (unprofessional Geg) All I have to say is... &quot;We totally owned you lamers&quot;? WTF have the done with Seifer!? [[User:Geg|Geg]] 03:22, 11 February 2006 (UTC)
::And yet no one comments on if you lose to Hayner in Struggle. &quot;You got pwned&quot;? --[[User:'Ivan|&amp;#39;Ivan]] 14:50, 30 March 2006 (UTC)

==New Voice Cast for Advent Children, Could it mean something for KH2?==

I found this at 1up.com http://www.1up.com/do/newsStory?cId=3147962 and its a full voice cast for Advent Children, It has some of the charaters that are also in KH2 that werent given voice actors, like Yuffie, Cid and Sephiroth. So shouldnt someone add thier names to the Voice Cast list on this site? -- Moon (Sorry i dont know how to sign stuff on this site, im fairly new)
: ''Maybe''. The only voices we really didn't know about from FF7 was Cid's and Sephiroth's, since Romano did Yuffie's voice in KH1. Though it is stated that there would be crossovers in the cast between KH2 and AC, I don't know if it's safe to assume that Edgerly and Newbern will do Cid and Sephiroth in KH2. And these voices were only specifically confirmed for AC, so it doesn't really count, I guess. But anyway, I hadn't seen this article yet, so a big thanks from me for posting it. PS. Haha, Jet's voice doing Barret. I SO predicted that. [[User:Geg|Geg]] 22:56, 13 February 2006 (UTC)

==Anti Form==
After seeing this[[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Kingdom_Hearts_II&amp;curid=1745270&amp;diff=39841247&amp;oldid=39839948]] edit by an Anonymous user, I've decided to edit it a bit, because even though it may be the correct method, it's not really known which one is correct, is it?[[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Kingdom_Hearts_II&amp;diff=39852678&amp;oldid=39841247]] [[User:Zero1328|Zero1328]] 08:12, 16 February 2006 (UTC)
:Wasn't there an interview of Nomura in Famitsu again, where he said something about &quot;overusing the power of Drives&quot; regarding Anti Form? (I can't open KH Ultimania at school, and they shot down most if not all of my bypasses.) --[[User:'Ivan|&amp;#39;Ivan]] 16:13, 16 February 2006 (UTC)
::From KHU: &quot;Drives are very strong so anti-form exists as a side-effect of using too much power.&quot;[[http://www.kh2.co.uk/index.php?subaction=showfull&amp;id=1139968203&amp;archive=&amp;start_from=&amp;ucat=&amp;]](Note: Link contains spoilers.) The currently most accepted theory is accumulating a certain amount of damage in Drive, then simply Driving into the form. I believe that since it's merely a theory, a better explanation should go in instead, simply saying that it's not known how to go into it, but it &lt;u&gt;is&lt;/u&gt; a result of abusing the Drive system. [[User:Zero1328|Zero1328]] 07:27, 17 February 2006 (UTC)
:::How could it possibly be from abusing it? It's been proven to not have been caused by driving too much. Maybe taking damage while driving counts as &quot;abusing drive&quot;, since I guess that driving a lot means taking a lot of damage while in drive. So yeah, it's basically from using drive too much, though the overall cause of it is most likely taking too much damage while in drive. [[User:Geg|Geg]] 22:44, 17 February 2006 (UTC)
::::Still, it's just a theory, which is why I'm having trouble accepting the current description. [[User:Zero1328|Zero1328]] 23:11, 17 February 2006 (UTC)
:::::True it's just a theory, but it's a theory with a lot of evidence to back it up. Eh, whatever. Hopefully when KH2 Ultimania comes out they'll have a detailed description of the mechanics of Anti-Form. [[User:Geg|Geg]] 23:19, 17 February 2006 (UTC)
:Well there's a video on kh-vids.net. The guy drives 100 times with no anti-form result. He then goes and gets his butt kicked. The &quot;super damage&quot; theory is supported about 2 of 5 times.
Too many sources of contradicting info. You guys decide. [[User:Master Vinaki|Master Vinaki]]12:34, 19 February 2006 (EST)
::Where's the contradicting info? I don't see any information contradicting anything else. Like I said, &quot;abusing drive&quot; can still mean taking too much damage while in Drive. [[User:Geg|Geg]] 18:43, 19 February 2006 (UTC)
:::I support the theory posed by the kh-vids.com video. --[[User:'Ivan|&amp;#39;Ivan]] 20:02, 19 February 2006 (UTC)
::::Confirmed[[http://www.khforums.com/index.php?showtopic=22072]] by Ultimania as a percentage chance after Driving too much. I told you, It was only a theory and we should leave it saying unknown until we find out, but I just didn't want an edit war. Kudos to Pazuzu. [[User:Zero1328|Zero1328]] 06:38, 1 March 2006 (UTC)
:::::I added one tiny detail to it. It's the only thing that could explain Deathspank driving 100 times and not getting Anti Form once. [[User:Geg|Geg]] 22:58, 1 March 2006 (UTC)
Anti-Form is caused by getting attacked too much in battle while in a drive form. Watch that Drive Analysis made by Deathspank and there is your answer.
:Sorry. Ultimania is a more official source than Deathspank, no offense meant to him at all. --[[User:'Ivan|&amp;#39;Ivan]] 03:39, 14 March 2006 (UTC)
What did Ultimania say about Anit-Form?
:What we have on the site. The main problem with Deathspank's video is that he did the &quot;Driving 100 times&quot; thing while not in a battle. Apparently, you can only get into Anti Form while battling. [[User:Geg|Geg]] 23:36, 14 March 2006 (UTC)
Before anyone goes crazy over the new anti form description (not made by me I just wanted to point some things out)
A) That is the description given by the brady games guide(though less detailed)
B) I've been hit much and when I've drived without going anti on that or the next turn
C) It's happened to me mainly during boss battles which the guide says have a double chance of you going anti
So yeah, it seems that this is correct so talk about it before you change it and let's try not to go into a huge edit war here.
[[User:Pixelanteninja|Pixelanteninja]] 18:25, 1 April 2006 (UTC)

== Look familar, anyone? ==

[http://www.governpub.com/gt/Kingdom_Hearts_2.html What's up with this?]

[[Wikipedia:Text of the GNU Free Documentation License]]. [[User:Apostrophe|&lt;small&gt;&lt;b&gt;'&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/small&gt;]] &lt;sup&gt;([[User talk:Apostrophe|Feeling chatty?]] ) ([[Special:Contributions/Apostrophe|Edits!]])&lt;/sup&gt; 21:16, 21 February 2006 (UTC)

What the? How did they get all the info that wiki has? [[User:Master Vinaki|Master Vinaki]] 16:19, 22 February 2006

I think what's more important is the lack of the License on their page. I skimmed over that GNU License page, but the point is, they're not giving out any credit. [[User:Zero1328|Zero1328]] 07:17, 22 February 2006 (UTC)
:P.S. - Not really related, but this website looks terrible, I can't navigate through it at all. Where would contact info be? - 07:21, 22 February 2006 (UTC)
::P.P.S. - Just did a quick skim through the site, looks like the entire website could possibly be made up of severely outdated articles from Wikipedia. - 07:25, 22 February 2006 (UTC)
:::P.P.P.S. - [[Wikipedia:Mirrors_and_forks/Ghi#governpub.com|I listed it.]] I just found out about this page.. - 08:06, 22 February 2006 (UTC)



== Editing ==

What's going on!? I tried editing the world's section and everything disappeared!!!! What happened!!!??? &lt;small&gt;—The preceding [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|unsigned]] comment was added by [[User:83.53.60.136|83.53.60.136]] ([[User talk:83.53.60.136|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/83.53.60.136|contribs]]) {{{2|}}}.&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- [Template:Unsigned] --&gt;

Your not allowed. If you were correcting the spelling of Space Paranoids and Pride Lands, then wikipedia starts going apeshit because thats not how it is spelled in the game. &lt;small&gt;—The preceding [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|unsigned]] comment was added by [[User:68.237.207.173|68.237.207.173]] ([[User talk:68.237.207.173|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/68.237.207.173|contribs]]) {{{2|}}}.&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- [Template:Unsigned] --&gt;

== Merlins Voice Actor ==

http://youtube.com/watch?v=4iu5-J--Ahw

his voice actor is confirmed as Karl Swenson now. Someone should add it.

:How does just listening to it confirm that's him? [[User:Geg|Geg]] 02:27, 16 March 2006 (UTC)

::Well i see that the MCP and Sark have been confirmed and that was also from a video that Mav and Deathspank took

:::Uh, guys? Did you all know that Karl Swenson died a long time ago? Unless it's archive footage, which is very unlikely, it must be another actor making his voice like Swenson's. Jim Cummings' voice of Winnie the Pooh made me think it was Sterling Holloway on Kingdom Hearts, so it must be another actor. [[User:Remy|Remy]]

::::The voice actor voicing Merlin is indeed Jeff Bennett. I know A LOT about voice actors and it's no doubt that it's him. His voice is easy to recognize. Whoever keeps editing the VA to Jeff Bennett is correct. [[User:NeoSeifer|NeoSeifer]]

::::Rest assured, people. I am 100% sure that it is Jeff Bennett. Listen to some of his past performance, then listen to Merlin in KH2. In Axel's case, someone says that he is voiced by Quinton Flynn and his name stays on the cast list forevermore. Why not list Kirk Thorton as Saix? It is obviously him. Why can't we do the same for Merlin? If you're familiar with American voice actors, you'd know that Jeff is voicing Merlin. Please don't remove his name from the list. Thank you. [[User:NeoSeifer|NeoSeifer]]

:::::Because it's speculative in nature and with no verifiable proof. That's why. It doesn't matter if it does turn out to be true. The main point is that at the current time, there's no ''verifiable'' proof that they're voiced by who you're saying there are. If you think that's too strict/stupid, look here: [[WP:V]]. While I'm at it, I'll go ahead and remove Quinton Flynn as Axel too. [[User:Geg|Geg]] 16:35, 22 March 2006 (UTC)

::::::No doubt you do know a lot about the VAs NeoSeifer, but I'm afraid that as Wikipedians, we must follow Wikipedia's policy which states '''[[Wikipedia:No original research|no original research]]''' and '''[[Wikipedia:What Wikipedia is not#Wikipedia is not a crystal ball|no speculation]]'''.  It is not your knowledge that I'm doubting, it's merely just following Wikipedia's policies.  As &quot;free&quot; as an encyclopedia as it may be&amp;mdash;Wikipedia still has rules and policies that we must follow.  Plus, Wikipedia is not a fansite where we post rumors, speculation, and such&amp;mdash;it's an '''encyclopedia''' with articles containing confirmed facts and other verifiable information.  (But even trusted fansites like KHU does not have Quinton Flynn, Kirk Thornton, etc. on their VA list).   &amp;mdash;[[User:Mirlen|Mirlen]]

:::::::So why not remove Tate Donovan's name from the cast? Because it sounds like him, instead of Sean Astin? You have Wayne Allwine casted as Mickey (his name was on the list long before than &quot;World That Never Was&quot; video came out), but wouldn't it be fair to also list Russi Taylor as Minnie and Tress MacNeille as Daisy? They are the most likely candidates, since they're the official voices, right? Pete (same case as Mickey), Pooh, and Tigger were casted as Jim Cumming according to your list, yet there was no real way to prove it. Is it because Cummings is their official voice actor? If that's the case, you might as well list Chris Sarandon as Jack Skellington, Matthew Broderick as Simba, and Chris Sanders as Stitch. How about Susan Blakeslee? Was she proven to voice Maleficent? Last time I remember, the reason why Sark and MCP are on the list is because someone thought that they heard David Warner's voice in whichever clip he/she saw. Is that really any different from why people think Quinton Flynn will voice Axel and Kirk Thornton will voice Saix? Recognizing a character's voice is proof enough. [[User:NeoSeifer|NeoSeifer]]

::::::::I am not a judge, nor do I have the authority to judge, in a matter of whether or not recognizing a character's voice is proof: I am just one of the many editors following Wikipedia's policies.  If you have a problem with the policy of no original research and speculation, then you may bring it up in [[Wikipedia:Village pump (policy)|Village pump]]&amp;mdash;a discussion where people debate what they think are problems in the policies. I am sure that if you state your case there, there are people who will be willing to discuss with you about it.  (Meanwhile, let's not turn this into a Wikifight).  &amp;mdash;[[User:Mirlen|Mirlen]] 17:46, 22 March 2006 (UTC)

:::::::::Mirlen's right. Chatboard? It's more like the start of World War III. We might as well just wait until it comes out. [[User:Remy|Remy]]

== Is there a reason why the forms are no longer color-coded? ==

Is there a policy against color-coding on wikipedia or something like that? (I haven't been very active  in the community but noticed that it was changed when the argument over anti form was happening and thought it was a nice touch.)[[User:Pixelanteninja|Pixelanteninja]] 19:42, 17 March 2006 (UTC)
:It's a browser compatibility problem, if I recall correctly. Some browsers won't be able to load the coloured text properly and would either cause the text to be invisible, garbled, or cause other problems. Nice touch, but unnecessary  in the scheme of things. --[[User:'Ivan|&amp;#39;Ivan]] 12:35, 17 March 2006 (UTC)
Oh, ok, just wanted to know [[User:Pixelanteninja|Pixelanteninja]] 19:42, 17 March 2006 (UTC)

== Organization XIII voices ==

The English version of KH2 is coming. There have been lots of English screens, but how come nobody will say who are speaking for the members of the Thirteenth Order? We know Quinton Flynn is Axel and Robin Atkin Downes is Luxord, but why won't anyone put the names on the cast list? [[User:83.49.60.100|Remy]]

And what happened to Billy Zane?
:First off, where the hell did that name for Luxord come from? He hasn't even appeared in a video yet. Second, because it's all speculation. It's best to wait until the game actually comes out, or until Maverick22 gets captures the game's credits so we can see the cast list. It's best to just wait until everything's confirmed rather than just guessing based on what other anime characters they sound like. [[User:Geg|Geg]] 16:37, 18 March 2006 (UTC)

::Alright, Grant. Thanks for the info. And I saw Robin Atkin Downes' name on the IMDb. Whether it's true or false, I don't know. [[User:83.5349.60.100|Remy]]

:::Okay. This is what I don't understand. People say that Quinton Flynn voices Axel and Flynn's name stays on the voice cast. His voice wasn't even that clear in that video we heard him in. Saix's voice is heard much more clearly in a recent video and people recognized his voice actor to be Kirk Thornton, yet whenever someone puts his name on the cast, someone removes it. Why is Flynn so different from Thornton? Shouldn't Flynn's name be removed, as well, if that's the case? [[User:NeoSeifer|NeoSeifer]]

::::That was a mistake.  As humans, we all make mistakes, hm?  Anyway, we have Flynn's name removed as well.  &amp;mdash;[[User:Mirlen|Mirlen]] 16:56, 22 March 2006 (UTC)

:::::That's the best you can come up with? You're human, so you made a mistake? Give me a break. He's not an Org. member, but someone keeps removing Merlin's name in the case, as well. He is voiced by Jeff Bennett. Why would someone remove his name when you can actaully HEAR that it is him? [[User:NeoSeifer|NeoSeifer]]

::::::There's no need to get angry, NeoSeifer.  Let me say it again: no doubt you do know a lot about the VAs NeoSeifer, but I'm afraid that as Wikipedians, we must follow Wikipedia's policy which states '''[[Wikipedia:No original research|no original research]]''' and '''[[Wikipedia:What Wikipedia is not#Wikipedia is not a crystal ball|no speculation]]'''.  It is not your knowledge that I'm doubting, it's merely just following Wikipedia's policies.  As &quot;free&quot; as an encyclopedia as it may be&amp;mdash;Wikipedia still has rules and policies that we must follow.  Plus, Wikipedia is not a fansite where we post rumors, speculation, and such&amp;mdash;it's an '''encyclopedia''' with articles containing confirmed facts and other verifiable information.  (But even trusted fansites like KHU does not have Quinton Flynn, Kirk Thornton, etc. on their VA list).   &amp;mdash;[[User:Mirlen|Mirlen]] 17:22, 22 March 2006 (UTC)

:::::::Well KHU hasnt updated thier site in God knows how long. &lt;small&gt;—The preceding [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|unsigned]] comment was added by [[User:68.237.207.173|68.237.207.173]] ([[User talk:68.237.207.173|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/68.237.207.173|contribs]]) {{{2|}}}.&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- [Template:Unsigned] --&gt;

::::::::True, but even so, I do not think Pete and the rest of the staff would update the VA list unless there is verifiable proof or information. &amp;mdash;[[User:Mirlen|Mirlen]] 02:02, 23 March 2006 (UTC)

::::::::Would someone stop deleting Axel's voice on Kingdom Hearts 2 voices &lt;small&gt;—The preceding [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|unsigned]] comment was added by [[User:MemoriesOfThePast2|MemoriesofThePast2]] ([[User talk:MemoriesofThePast2|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/MemoriesofThePast2|contribs]]) {{{2|}}}.&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- [Template:Unsigned] --&gt;

::::::::Yeah, who keeps on deleting the XIII voice actors. Quinton Flynn, Kirk Thornton, Lex Kang and Robin Atkin Downes have all been confirmed by YouTube and I got an e-mail from Robin stating he was doing the voice of Luxord. &lt;small&gt;—The preceding [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|unsigned]] comment was added by [[User:GrandpaPorridge|GrandpaPorridge]] ([[User talk:GrandpaPorridge|talk]] •[[Special:Contributions/GrandpaPorridge|contribs]]) {{{2|}}}.&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- [Template:Unsigned] --&gt;

:::::::::Read some of the previous comments. Youtube confirms nothing. [[User:Geg|Geg]] 02:28, 24 March 2006 (UTC)

:::::::::Than why is Pat Carrol on the voice list? She was confirmed by YouTube as well, along with most of those voices. How does YouTube confirm nothing. If it's obviously those voices people hear it must be them. If you've read the forums on KHU and other fansites, you'll find many members have confirmed those voice actors. &lt;small&gt;—The preceding [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|unsigned]] comment was added by [[User:GrandpaPorridge|GrandpaPorridge]] ([[User talk:GrandpaPorridge|talk]] •[[Special:Contributions/GrandpaPorridge|contribs]]) {{{2|}}}.&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- [Template:Unsigned] --&gt;

:::::::::: Five words: '''[[Wikipedia:No original research|No Original Research]]''', and '''[[Wikipedia:What Wikipedia is not#Wikipedia is not a crystal ball|No Speculation]]''' - I don't care if it's right or wrong. It's original research, it's speculation, it's not permitted on Wikipedia. - [[User:Zero1328|Zero1328]] 07:16, 24 March 2006 (UTC)

:::::::::::You're a hypocrite, because some of the voice actors' names are on the list, because someone said that (voice actor name here) voices (character name here). Why wasn't Tate Donovan's name deleted for the same reason? Same goes for George Newbern. &lt;small&gt;—The preceding [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|unsigned]] comment was added by [[User:165.155.128.131|165.155.128.131]] ([[User talk:165.155.128.131|talk]] •[[Special:Contributions/165.155.128.131|contribs]]) {{{2|}}}.&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- [Template:Unsigned] --&gt;

::::::::::::None of the following voice actors have actually been confirmed by an official article of some kind, interview, or any type of solid evidence (other than listening to the voices in a video or something):
* Bill Farmer (Goofy)
* Tony Anselmo (Donald Duck)
* Wayne Allwine (Mickey Mouse)
* Susan Blakeslee (Maleficent)
* Jim Cummings (Pete, Winnie the Pooh, Tigger)
* Eddie Carroll (Jiminy Cricket)
* Christy Carlson Romano (Yuffie Kisaragi)
* George Newbern (Sephiroth) - Same as how you deleted Chris Edgerly (Cid) from the list, why not the same for Sephiroth.
* Matt McKenzie (Auron)
* Tate Donovan (Hercules)
* Robert Costanzo (Philoctetes)
* Jodi Benson (Ariel)
* Pat Carroll (Ursula)
* Keira Knightley (Elizabeth Swann) - There was never any real proof that Knightly would voice Elizabeth. That's a fansite you got that info from. The editor misread the article that he got this info from.
* David Warner (Sark, MCP) &lt;small&gt;—The preceding [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|unsigned]] comment was added by [[User:165.155.128.131|165.155.128.131]] ([[User talk:165.155.128.131|talk]] •[[Special:Contributions/165.155.128.131|contribs]]) {{{2|}}}.&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- [Template:Unsigned] --&gt;

These voice actors were never ''proven'' to be a part of the voice cast in KH2, other than listening to their voices in videos. Some of them were there before videos of them were seen and heard. Why would you keep their names, yet delete anothers, like Kirk Thornton (Saix) and Jeff Bennett (Merlin)? I don't understand that. &lt;small&gt;—The preceding [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|unsigned]] comment was added by [[User:165.155.128.131|165.155.128.131]] ([[User talk:165.155.128.131|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/165.155.128.131|contribs]]) {{{2|}}}.&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- [Template:Unsigned] --&gt;

::::::::::::Exactly. No original research? I got an e-mail from Robin Atkin Downes himself saying that he was doing the voice of Luxord, not to mention hearing his voice in a video. Keira Knightly's voice is from a fansite as well. Jim Cummings has never been confirmed either, since he was only heard in a video. Along with Susan Blakeslee. You guys are running a very odd operation here. You're putting voices that haven't been confirmed on and taking other off. It's not speculation when many different people have matched the voice on YouTube with a certain person... &lt;small&gt;—The preceding [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|unsigned]] comment was added by [[User:GrandpaPorridge|GrandpaPorridge]] ([[User talk:GrandpaPorridge|talk]] •[[Special:Contributions/GrandpaPorridge|contribs]]) {{{2|}}}.&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- [Template:Unsigned] --&gt;
:::::::::::::Actually most of those voices are pretty much confirmed, since back when they originally announced most of the cast they said that all the Disney characters' respective voice actors will be returning. [[User:Geg|Geg]] 23:21, 24 March 2006 (UTC)

* With Cripsin Freeman confirming he is voicing Setzer, this seems to confirmed he will be voicing Will Turner as well. &lt;small&gt;—The preceding [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|unsigned]] comment was added by [[User:Fractyl|Fractyl]] ([[User talk:Fractyl|talk]] •[[Special:Contributions/Fractyl|contribs]]) {{{2|}}}.&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- [Template:Unsigned] --&gt;
:: Why's that? [[User:Geg|Geg]] 00:52, 25 March 2006 (UTC)
:::Fractyl, I think you got confused.  A fan who commented on the entry said that he &quot;could of sworn someone mentioned that Freeman was going to do William Turner&quot;&amp;mdash;but it never Crispin Freeman never mentions anything about Will Turner, only that he'll be voicing a non-FF character. &amp;mdash;[[User:Mirlen|Mirlen]] 01:10, 25 March 2006 (UTC)

:::: You're way off, Geg. ''All'' of them? If that's true, list every single Disney character in this game that has a speaking role in that list. Although most of the official voice actors will voice their respective characters, most of them were never truly confirmed yet. Most of us know that Jim Cummings is voicing Pete and Pooh as heard in previous videos, but Cummings himself or any official info said that he would voice them, so why is his name on the list. Why is listing Susan Blakeslee any different from listing Quinton Flynn? What are you guys trying to pull? [[User:NeoSeifer|NeoSeifer]]

== Hercules confusion ==

Based off of several clips and other forms of confirmation, Tate Donovan (the original Hercules voice actor) is, in fact, doing Herc's voice.  Thank goodness Sean Astin isn't doing it again.

== Where I think the voices are at ==

*I've looked over this credits page and i believe most of these to be credible as it seems they have fixed the errors regarding Mena Suvari and Richard Epcar, that is if you go to the very bottom of the page. [http://www.gamefaqs.com/console/ps2/data/915410.html]
**It's only &lt;u&gt;less than a week&lt;/u&gt; away and you're still adding names by listening to leaked videos. We need a definite source! GameFAQs has user submitted content! same for IMDB! Less than a week! I don't want to go in an edit war over this, but I believe that no new voices should be added ''at all'' until the game release, or a ''real'' credible source is supplied. Stop posting the links to sources on the article pages itself, and just wait! I don't care if it's the right or wrong guess, until it comes from an official source you should just stop it, ok? This is definitely getting annoying. - [[User:Zero1328|Zero1328]] 10:23, 23 March 2006 (UTC)
**PS: I know I lashed out at you there, but it's mere days before a release and the past few months have been getting to me. Every day on the Org13 and KH2 articles it's just revert, revert, revert. - [[User:Zero1328|Zero1328]] 10:31, 23 March 2006 (UTC)

== Riku ==

I heard Riku is playable towards the end of the game. is this true? [[User:Lionheart Omega|Lionheart Omega]] 13:30, 24 March 2006 (UTC)

:[[Wikipedia:What wikipedia is not#Wikipedia is not a chatroom|Wikipedia is not a bulletin board or chatroom]].  Questions like these belong in the [[GameFAQs]] [[message boards]].  Thanks. And yes. --[[User:'Ivan|&amp;#39;Ivan]] 15:30, 24 March 2006 (UTC)


Actually, I believe you can only tell him what to do, and I think it's almost right at the end, in &quot;The World That Never Was&quot;.....

== Why is Quinton Flynn's credit being reverted? ==

He voices Axel, that's not speculation. Why do people keep removing it?

[[User:TehBeefWhistle|TehBeefWhistle]] 08:39, 25 March 2006 (UTC)
*Try reading some of the other conversations that took place on the talk page. Original research and speculation isn't permitted on Wikipedia. Give us a definite source other than telling us to listen to the leaked videos, or any fansite with &quot;definite guesses&quot;, or any website that allows user-submitted content, and then it'll stop being removed. - [[User:Zero1328|Zero1328]] 09:50, 25 March 2006 (UTC)
**If all it takes to know the voice actors is just to beat the game, it shouldn't be considered personal research. I've beaten this game already and all the voice actors are listed in the credits. That isn't personal research, it's just something that cannot be cited due to the fact that it isn't anywhere else.[[User:68.255.25.168|68.255.25.168]] 02:19, 3 April 2006 (UTC)

== English cast list ==
With all the debating and confusion over the cast list, mere days before release, I think we should all just stop touching the list for the next few days until the game is released. This means no editing, adding, removing, or anything at all, because I don't want a 5368th arguement over whether Jesse Mcartney is voicing Mickey Mouse or something, because there's a video on Youtube with his voice on it. Lets just all agree to just leave it be, and just forgive and forget, ok? When the game's released, we'll just redo the entire list from scratch. (however.. what shall we do with the anon edits though?) - [[User:Zero1328|Zero1328]] 00:46, 26 March 2006 (UTC)
:I just want to point out that Xaldin of Kingdom Hearts Insider's forums and KH-Vids.net got ahold of the game a day early and is at the current moment scanning the instruction booklet. Meaning we'll have a full cast list within an hour or so. At last, the Great Wikipedia Wars can end. [[User:Geg|Geg]] 01:22, 28 March 2006 (UTC)

:The article was semi-protected before. It beats me why the heck the protection was taken off. --[[User:'Ivan|&amp;#39;Ivan]] 13:41, 27 March 2006 (UTC)
::They can't keep things semi-protected forever. I wish they could though. [[User:Geg|Geg]] 22:02, 27 March 2006 (UTC)
:::Why don't they read the manual? Because it tends to list the actors. Or play the actual game? --[[User:'Zeta26|Zeta26]]
::::The game wasn't out when this edit warring was going on. --[[User:'Ivan|&amp;#39;Ivan]] 13:18, 30 March 2006 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>