<article id="5177810" title=User talk:Mike ov ince>
	<talkpage id="5177810" title="User talk:Mike ov ince">

{| style=&quot;width:98%; height:260px&quot; border=&quot;3&quot; 
|&lt;B&gt;&lt;FONT FACE=&quot;Neolith&quot; SIZE=&quot;5&quot; COLOR=&quot;red&quot;&gt;Welcome!&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/B&gt;


Hello, {{PAGENAME}}, and [[Wikipedia:Welcome, newcomers|welcome]] to Wikipedia! Thank you for your contributions. I hope you like the place and decide to stay. If you are stuck, and looking for help, please come to the [[WP:BC|Wikipedia Boot Camp]], where experienced Wikipedians can answer any queries you have! Or, you can just type '''&lt;code&gt;{&amp;#123;helpme}}&lt;/code&gt;''' on your user talk page, and someone will show up shortly to answer your questions.

Here are a few good links for newcomers:
*[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
*[[Wikipedia:Wikipedia_in_eight_words|Wikipedia in eight words]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]]
*[[Help:Contents|Help pages]]
*[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to write a great article|How to write a great article]]
*[[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]]
*[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Anonymous_anonymous/FAQ My FAQ Page]
*[[Wikipedia:Sandbox|Sandbox (This page is for testing) ]]
I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! Please [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|sign your name]] on talk pages using four tildes (~&amp;#126;~~); this will automatically produce your name and the date. If you need help, check out [[Wikipedia:Where to ask a question]], ask me or an experienced wikipedian like [[User:Commander Keane|Commander Keane]], [[User:Sango123|Sango123]] and [[User:JoanneB|JoanneB]] and leave your message on our talk page. Again, welcome!

If you want to tell me something or if you just want to say hi, leave your message under the '''Talk Section''' of [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_talk:Anonymous_anonymous | '''My Talk Page''']

Once you've become an experienced Wikipedian, please take your time to visit these pages:
*[[Wikipedia:Esperanza|Esperanza]]
*[[Wikipedia:Counter_Vandalism_Unit|Counter Vandalism Unit]]
*[[WP:KC|Wikipedia Kindness Campaign]]
*[[Wikipedia:Department of Fun|Department of Fun]]
*[[Wikipedia:Community Justice|Community Justice]]

&lt;font face=&quot;Croobie&quot; color=&quot;red&quot;&gt;[[User:Anonymous_anonymous|Anonymous]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;font face=&quot;Croobie&quot; color=&quot;blue&quot;&gt;[[User talk:Anonymous_anonymous|_anonymous_]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;font face=&quot;Croobie&quot; color=&quot;green&quot;&gt;[[User:Anonymous_anonymous/Esperanza|Have a Nice Day]]&lt;/font&gt;

|}
	</talkpage>
</article>