<article id="23385099" title=User talk:Theose14>
	<talkpage id="23385099" title="User talk:Theose14">


== Welcome ==
Hello, Theose14, and '''[[Wikipedia:Welcome, newcomers|welcome to Wikipedia]]'''! Thank you for [[Special:Contributions/{{PAGENAME}}|your contributions]].

I notice that one of the first articles you created appears to be dealing with a topic with which you may have a [[WP:COI|conflict of interest]]. In other words, you may find it difficult to write about that topic in a [[WP:NPOV|neutral]] and objective way, because you are, work for, or represent, the subject of that article. Your recent contributions may have already been deleted for this very reason. 

To reduce the chances of deletion, you might like to draft your article before submission, then get me or any other editor to proofread it. To start creating a draft article, just click your user name at the top of the screen when you are logged in, and edit that page as you would any other. If the page you created has already been deleted from Wikipedia, but you want to save the content from it to use for that draft, don't hesitate to ask [[:Category:Wikipedia administrators who will provide copies of deleted articles|anyone from this list]] and they will copy it to your user page.

The one firm rule we do have in connection with conflicts of interest is that if more than one person is using this account to edit, then unfortunately it [[WP:NOSHARE|will be blocked from editing]].

If you are stuck, and looking for help, please come to the '''[[Wikipedia:New contributors' help page|New contributors' help page]]''', where experienced Wikipedians can answer any queries you have! Or, you can just type '''&lt;code&gt;{{tl|helpme}}&lt;/code&gt;''' on your user page, and someone will show up shortly to answer your questions. Here are a few other good links for newcomers:
*[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]]
*[[Help:Contents|Help pages]]
*[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to write a great article|How to write a great article]]
*[[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]]
I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! Please [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|sign your name]] on talk pages using four tildes (&lt;nowiki&gt;~~~~&lt;/nowiki&gt;); this will automatically produce your name and the date. If you have any questions, check out [[Wikipedia:Where to ask a question]] or ask me on {{#if:Tedder|[[user talk:Tedder|my talk page]]|my talk page}}. Again, welcome! &lt;!-- Template:Welcome-auto --&gt; 
[[User:Tedder|tedder]] ([[User talk:Tedder|talk]]) 11:08, 25 June 2009 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>