<article id="41955032" title=User talk:92.21.52.159>
	<talkpage id="41955032" title="User talk:92.21.52.159">
== Welcome to Wikipedia! ==

Hello, and [[Wikipedia:Introduction|welcome]] to Wikipedia! Thank you for [[Special:Contributions/92.21.52.159|your contributions]], such as the one you made to [[Colombo]]. I hope you like the place and decide to stay. Here are some pages you might like to see:

* [[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
* [[Help:Contents|Help pages]]
* [[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
* [[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]] and [[Wikipedia:Article development|How to develop articles]]
* [[Wikipedia:Simplified Manual of Style|Simplified Manual of Style]]
* [[Help:Wikipedia: The Missing Manual/Introduction|Intuitive guide to Wikipedia]]

You are welcome to continue editing without [[Special:Userlogin|logging in]], but you may want to consider '''&lt;span class=&quot;plainlinks&quot;&gt;[{{fullurl:Special:Userlogin|type=signup&amp;campaign=anonwelcometemplate}} creating an account]&lt;/span&gt;'''. Doing so is free, requires no personal information, and provides several benefits such as the ability to create articles. For a full outline and explanation of the benefits that come with creating an account, please see [[Wikipedia:Why create an account?|this page]]. If you edit without a username, your [[IP address]] (92.21.52.159) is used to identify you instead.

In any case, I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! Please [[Wikipedia:Signatures|sign your comments]] on talk pages using four tildes (&lt;nowiki&gt;~~~~&lt;/nowiki&gt;); this will automatically produce your IP address (or username if you're logged in) and the date. If you need help, check out [[Wikipedia:Questions]], ask me on [[User talk:Green Giant|my talk page]], or ask your question and then place &lt;code&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;{{&lt;/nowiki&gt;[[:Category:Wikipedians looking for help|helpme]]&lt;nowiki&gt;}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;&lt;/code&gt; before the question on this page. Again, welcome! &lt;!-- Template:welcome-anon --&gt; '''&lt;span style=&quot;text-shadow:#C0C0C0 0.2em 0.2em 0.2em&quot;&gt;[[User:Green Giant|&lt;font color=&quot;#0F0&quot;&gt;Green Giant&lt;/font&gt;]] ([[Special:Contributions/Green Giant|&lt;font color=&quot;#00F&quot;&gt;edits&lt;/font&gt;]]) ([[User talk:Green Giant|&lt;font color=&quot;#F00&quot;&gt;talk&lt;/font&gt;]])&lt;/span&gt;''' 00:33, 16 February 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>