<article id="13395244" title=User talk:Awinerip>
	<talkpage id="13395244" title="User talk:Awinerip">
'''Welcome!'''

Hello, {{BASEPAGENAME}}, and [[Wikipedia:Introduction|welcome]] to Wikipedia! Thank you for [[Special:Contributions/{{BASEPAGENAME}}|your contributions]]{{#if:{{{art|}}}|, especially what you did for [[{{{art}}}]]|}}. I hope you like the place and decide to stay. Here are some pages that you might find helpful:
*[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]]
*[[Help:Contents|Help pages]]
*[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
*[[Wikipedia:Article development|How to write a great article]]
*[[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]]
I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! Please [[Wikipedia:Signatures|sign your name]] on talk pages using four tildes (&lt;nowiki&gt;~~~~&lt;/nowiki&gt;); this will automatically produce your name and the date. If you need help, check out [[Wikipedia:Questions]], ask me on {{#if:{{{1|}}}|[[user talk:{{{1}}}|my talk page]]|my talk page}}, or ask your question and then place &lt;code&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;{{&lt;/nowiki&gt;[[:Category:Wikipedians looking for help|helpme]]&lt;nowiki&gt;}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;&lt;/code&gt; before the question on your talk page. Again, welcome! &lt;!-- Template:Welcome --&gt;


==Grimey season==
{{#if:{{{header|}}}|=={{{header-text|[[:Grimey season]]}}}==}}
A tag has been placed on [[:Grimey season]], requesting that it be [[Wikipedia:Criteria for speedy deletion|speedily deleted]] from Wikipedia. This has been done because the page appears to have no meaningful content or history, and the text is unsalvageably incoherent.

If you think that this notice was placed here in error, you may contest the deletion. To do this, add &lt;code&gt;{{tl|hangon}}&lt;/code&gt; on the top of the page (just below the existing speedy deletion or &quot;db&quot; tag) and leave a note on the page's talk page explaining your position. Please do not remove the speedy deletion tag yourself.

If the page you created was a test, please use the [[Wikipedia:Sandbox|sandbox]] for any other experiments you would like to do. Feel free to leave a message on my talk page if you have any questions about this.&lt;!-- Template:Nonsensepages --&gt;  &lt;font face=&quot;monospace&quot; color=&quot;#004080&quot;&gt;[[User:Flowerpotman|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#004080; font-variant:small-caps&quot;&gt;FlowerpotmaN&lt;/span&gt;]]&amp;middot;([[User talk:Flowerpotman|t]])&lt;/font&gt; 00:19, 23 September 2007 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>