<article id="14393160" title=Talk:Taxi to the Dark Side>
	<talkpage id="14393160" title="Talk:Taxi to the Dark Side">
{{WikiProject Iraq}}
{{WikiProject Film|American-task-force=yes|class=Start|War-task-force=yes|Documentary=yes}}

== MPAA Controversy ==

This supposed issue caused quite a stir:

[http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&amp;q=%2B%22Taxi+To+The+Dark+Side%22%2BMPAA&amp;btnG=Google+Search Stir on the internet]

via [http://www.boingboing.net/2007/12/20/mpaa-censors-torture.html Boing Boing]:

ThinkFilm is releasing Alex Gibney's documentary &quot;Taxi To The Dark Side&quot; and submitted a poster for MPAA approval which featured a photo of two soldiers leading away a handcuffed and hooded man. The MPAA rejected it as being &quot;not suitable for audiences of all ages&quot;.
The hypocrisy of this, in the face of posters for horror/slasher flicks like &quot;Saw&quot; and &quot;Hostel&quot;, is astounding. Censorship pure and simple.


'''But, it turns out it may not be true?''' Kinda confusing since the [http://www.variety.com/VR1117977926.html original Variety article] makes it very clear from the various quotes via ThinkFilm, etc. that they are, indeed, referring to a poster and not a trailer, so I'm still wondering what's really going on here?

[http://www.variety.com/article/VR1117978005.html?categoryid=1611&amp;cs=1 Correction] 
By VARIETY STAFF
The MPAA did not approve a theatrical trailer for Alex Gibney's documentary &quot;Taxi to the Dark Side&quot; that contained scenes with nudity and images that the org deemed inappropriate for all audiences. ThinkFilm has not yet officially submitted the one-sheet art referenced in a Dec. 19 story, but Daily Variety failed to indicate that it was the trailer that was rejected and not the one-sheet artwork.

[[User:Cowicide|Cowicide]] ([[User talk:Cowicide|talk]]) 03:59, 28 December 2007 (UTC)

== {{tl|prod}}? ==

This article was {{tl|prod}}ded today -- basis [[WP:FRINGE]].

Alex Gibney, the director, is the supersize me guy.  Clearly notable.

Premiered at Tribeca -- clearly notable.

Widely distributed -- clearly notable.

So I am removing the {{tl|prod}}.

Cheers!  [[User:Geo Swan|Geo Swan]] ([[User talk:Geo Swan|talk]]) 18:36, 20 January 2008 (UTC)

:[http://www.networksolutions.com/whois/results.jsp?ip=172.165.131.218 Reverse DNS] on the IP of the person who placed the {{tl|prod}} indicates they are from [[AOL]], FWIW.  [[User:Geo Swan|Geo Swan]] ([[User talk:Geo Swan|talk]]) 18:44, 20 January 2008 (UTC)

::Good on ya mate - keep up the good work.  This place (Wikipedia) is trawled by right wing American fanatics and therein lies your explanantion. [[Special:Contributions/122.148.173.37|122.148.173.37]] ([[User talk:122.148.173.37|talk]]) 14:44, 6 May 2008 (UTC)

== Oscar ==
The article needs to be updated. Taxi to the Dark Side won an Oscar for the best documentary.  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Radicalcentrist1990|Radicalcentrist1990]] ([[User talk:Radicalcentrist1990|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Radicalcentrist1990|contribs]]) 05:50, 25 February 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== &quot;Many pundits and bloggers&quot; ==

Best to give the names of a few of the pundits and bloggers (with sources) rather than simply using the POV term &quot;left-wing.&quot; [[User:Badagnani|Badagnani]] ([[User talk:Badagnani|talk]]) 17:10, 30 April 2008 (UTC)
:In light of that no one has added any names yet, I've added a citation request to that.  I fully expect it will turn out to be only left-wing bloggers and pundits who express an interest.
:Oddly enough, the May 6th post about the &quot;non-existant Criticism section&quot; would seem to agree that this is mostly a left-wing interest.  Few U.S. conservatives will take this film seriously, and those who might would consider the film to be sympathetic to fascism.  For non-leftists, you'd need to be looking at the anti-Semites on the extreme right to find those in common cause with that which exists on the left.  I don't think they've taken as much of an interest in these faux human rights charades.
:-- [[User:Randy2063|Randy2063]] ([[User talk:Randy2063|talk]]) 15:33, 15 May 2008 (UTC)

== non-existant Criticism section ==

I am puzzled by the fact that there is no section for criticism of the film: have the (American) right wingers really not found this wikipedia entry yet!? (Note that I am certainly not one of them.)  I somtimes enjoy conservative critques that one can usually so easily see through.  I guess there arent many possible of this particular films contents and thesis and any that could raised be would probably just make those raising them look silly.  Perhaps however there is a simpler explanantion: the film doesnt seem to have been screened on American TV yet (that notoriously imperfect and right wing institution). Note it is oh so incrediblely illuminating (for the open minded, perceptive, and particularly Chomskian analysts amoungst us) that its screening is not intended until after George Bush departs the Whitehouse. OMG! need i say more...? [[Special:Contributions/122.148.173.37|122.148.173.37]] ([[User talk:122.148.173.37|talk]]) 14:39, 6 May 2008 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>