<article id="44376884" title=User talk:94.209.224.118>
	<talkpage id="44376884" title="User talk:94.209.224.118">
== Welcome to Wikipedia! ==

Hello, and [[Wikipedia:Introduction|welcome]] to Wikipedia! Thank you for [[Special:Contributions/94.209.224.118|your contributions]]. I hope you like the place and decide to stay. Here are some pages you might like to see:

* [[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
* [[Wikipedia:Contributing to Wikipedia|Contributing to Wikipedia]]
* [[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
* [[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]] and [[Wikipedia:Article development|How to develop articles]]
* [[Wikipedia:Simplified Manual of Style|Simplified Manual of Style]]
* [[Help:Wikipedia: The Missing Manual/Introduction|Intuitive guide to Wikipedia]]

You are welcome to continue editing without [[Special:Userlogin|logging in]], but you may want to consider '''&lt;span class=&quot;plainlinks&quot;&gt;[{{fullurl:Special:Userlogin|type=signup&amp;campaign=anonwelcometemplate}} creating an account]&lt;/span&gt;'''. Doing so is free, requires no personal information, and provides several benefits such as the ability to create articles. For a full outline and explanation of the benefits that come with creating an account, please see [[Wikipedia:Why create an account?|this page]]. If you edit without a username, your [[IP address]] (94.209.224.118) is used to identify you instead.

In any case, I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! Please [[Wikipedia:Signatures|sign your comments]] on talk pages using four tildes (&lt;nowiki&gt;~~~~&lt;/nowiki&gt;); this will automatically produce your IP address (or username if you're logged in) and the date. If you need help, check out [[Wikipedia:Questions]], ask me on [[User talk:I dream of horses|my talk page]], or ask your question and then place &lt;code&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;{{&lt;/nowiki&gt;[[:Category:Wikipedians looking for help|helpme]]&lt;nowiki&gt;}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;&lt;/code&gt; before the question on this page. Again, welcome! &lt;!-- Template:welcome-anon --&gt; [[User:I dream of horses|I dream of horses]] &lt;span style=&quot;border:1px solid #ffa500;background:#ffce7b;&quot;&gt;&lt;small&gt;If you reply here, please leave me a &amp;#123;&amp;#123;[[Template:Talkback|Talkback]]&amp;#125;&amp;#125; message on [[User talk:I dream of horses|my talk page]].&lt;/small&gt;&lt;/span&gt; @  08:55, 12 November 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>