<article id="5998788" title=Talk:Bic (company)>
	<talkpage id="5998788" title="Talk:Bic (company)">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Companies}}
{{WikiProject France|class=Start|importance=Low|paris=yes}}
{{WikiProject Brands|class=|importance=}}
}}

== Disputable Claim ==
Hi,

I have a BIC affiliate website, www.BICeveryday.com, that I would like to include on the External Links section of the BIC Corporation profile page. It is a great resource teachers and students...

I believe my link was removed for promotional purposes, but I did see a similar link on the profile page for BIC Sports? Is there a way this BIC company link can be added to the BIC Corporation profile?

Thank you.

== Moved content from BIC Corp. page==
I have cut and pasted the content that was on BIC Corp. to here with a couple of minor changes i.e. replacing instances of Bic Corp in the text with Société Bic.--[[User:Trounce|Trounce]] 11:11, 17 July 2006 (UTC)

== Bic Pen = Bic Cristal ==

''The Bic pen, more correctly titled the Bic Cristal, is possibly the company's best known product.''

When I think &quot;Bic Pen,&quot; I think of the round, white-barrelled Bic White Stic pens, which [http://www.officedepot.com/ddMain.do?level=FM&amp;id=851&amp;location_info=SG_1_DV_13_SC_1305009_FM_851| this OfficeMax page] calls &quot;BIC's best-selling pen.&quot; I'm sure they outsell Cristals in the U.S., but possibly not in the rest of the world.

My question is whether saying &quot;Bic pen&quot; is &quot;more correctly titled Bic Cristal&quot; is necessarily accurate. Any thoughts? [[User:Gaagaagiw|Gaagaagiw]] 22:38, 10 September 2006 (UTC)

===Bic Orange===
What about the [[Bic Orange]] with a finer point?
Isn't it sold anymore?
--[[Special:Contributions/84.20.17.84|84.20.17.84]] ([[User talk:84.20.17.84|talk]]) 10:29, 27 November 2007 (UTC)

== BBB's Blog ==

I found this story, while surfing for spiritual items.

http://qspres.org/

Look for &quot;webmaster's Blog:  My Bic Blue Ballpoint Pen&quot;.

It's different!

== List of products ==

Is it really that imformative to have such a long list of bic products?  Surely a few examples would surfice. [[User:Lucas42|Lucas42]] 03:34, 9 January 2007 (UTC)
:I agree, but, not being an expert in the field of pens, I'll let someone who knows what they're doing make the edit. I'm not here to start an [[Wikipedia:edit war|edit war]]. [[User:66.31.225.37|66.31.225.37]] 18:58, 16 May 2007 (UTC)
::Tagged as unencyclopedic, see what other editors will do with the lists first. [[User:Hydrogen Iodide|Hydrogen Iodide]] 05:06, 20 May 2007 (UTC)

: For a company this large,the article is awfully short.  I think more information on the products is needed.  Since it is so difficult and time-consuming to jump back and forth in Wik, I'll just write what I '''think''' I read on two other Wik pages:  Bic bought both Wite-Out and Tipp-ex, the former the leading correction fluid in the US, the latter the leading one in Germany. [[Special:Contributions/211.225.34.179|211.225.34.179]] ([[User talk:211.225.34.179|talk]]) 08:04, 25 December 2010 (UTC)

== bic lighters deserve a page ==

Bic lighters are consistent enough to describe, and are popular enough to be worth describing. According bic's press pdf, they are tested for 'safe' burn times of 2 minutes, although the sticker on the side only recommends 30 secs max. There is an equation to determine what percentage of the lighter's fuel remains by weight, and there are tricks, such as rolling the flint wheel backwards to improve flint, that should be known. I want to know what is the maximum wind an unaided bic can light in. However, wikipedia is a catalog of only 'some' physical properties, not all, per subjective lines in the sand and deleted content. =(

== Bic Lighter Limerick Contest ==

In the mid-70's, Bic had a limerick contest that aired on the radio MANY times every day, to finish a limerick they started. You couldn't turn on the radio without hearing:

I once knew a pretty good trick,
That began with the flick of my Bic.
da da da da da da,
da da da da da da,
da da da da da da da da da.

Over and over throughout the day. It got old fast. I entered the contest, but didn't win. Here is my limerick entry:

I once knew a pretty good trick,
That began with the flick of my Bic.
I wish you would quit,
With this Bic-flicking shit,
Your commercial is making me sick.

Thank you for your time.

== History of slogans? ==

The section “History of slogans” consists of a single slogan, with no explanation about why Bic used it or how it is relevant. I know almost nothing about Bic, so I can't add more content there. Maybe someone else can? [[User:R2D2!|R2D2!]] ([[User talk:R2D2!|talk]]) 14:25, 30 October 2013 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>