<article id="25211912" title=Talk:Pupillary response>
	<talkpage id="25211912" title="Talk:Pupillary response">
{{WikiProject Physiology |class=Start |importance=Mid}}

== name change ==
is not pupil dilation the increase in a pupil and pupillary response then, which from this article in itself i take it that means a category including contraction and dilation of the pupil, does not refer to the same thing as pupil dilation in the English language?[[User:Makeswell|Makeswell]] ([[User talk:Makeswell|talk]]) 15:51, 26 November 2009 (UTC)
:You're right, changed the name back to &quot;pupillary response&quot;. --[[User:Struthious_Bandersnatch|❨Ṩtruthious '''ℬ'''andersnatch❩]] 00:56, 19 December 2010 (UTC)

== pupil dilation ==

according to wiki how pupil enlargement makes others like you more, is this true???--&lt;font color=&quot;#00008B&quot;&gt;[[User:Rio44|RIVER]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;#00008B&quot;&gt;[[User talk:Rio44|&lt;sup&gt;''Babble at my brooks''&lt;/sup&gt;]]&lt;/font&gt; 22:11, 12 June 2010 (UTC)
:Here's a source you can read directly: ''[http://uit.no/getfile.php?PageId=1935&amp;FileId=714 Women's pupillary responses to sexually significant others during the hormonal cycle]'' --[[User:Struthious_Bandersnatch|❨Ṩtruthious '''ℬ'''andersnatch❩]] 19:30, 13 June 2010 (UTC)

== separate article from mydriasis? ==

I put the phrase &quot;pupil dilation&quot; into the search field and was directed here, but really I was trying to remember the term [[mydriasis]]. That is a mature article, so what is the purpose of this one?  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/98.249.162.52|98.249.162.52]] ([[User talk:98.249.162.52|talk]]) 22:32, 18 December 2010 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:Did you read that page?  The first line is &quot;Mydriasis is an excessive dilation of the pupil due to disease, trauma or the use of drugs.&quot;  That's a very specific kind of pupillary response, this page is about the topic in general.  --[[User:Struthious_Bandersnatch|❨Ṩtruthious '''ℬ'''andersnatch❩]] 00:56, 19 December 2010 (UTC)

== Combine with Pupil article? ==

This article is categorized as a stub.  It could not be expanded much without starting to duplicate [[Mydriasis]], but it could become a section in [[Pupil]], to which this article's title would then redirect.  Would such a combination be better than continued stubbiness? [[User:Ornithikos|Ornithikos]] ([[User talk:Ornithikos|talk]]) 04:52, 22 July 2011 (UTC)

== Merge? ==

I wonder if this article could be combined with [[pupillary light reflex]]?  --[[User:Hordaland|Hordaland]] ([[User talk:Hordaland|talk]]) 21:16, 1 September 2012 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>