<article id="353726" title=Talk:Eevee>
	<talkpage id="353726" title="Talk:Eevee">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Video games |class=C |importance=Low}}
{{WikiProject Pokémon |class=C |importance=Mid}}
{{WikiProject Fictional characters |class=C}}
}}

== Style problems ==
Does anybody know how to skip go to the next line in an atricle, I can't get it right [[User:Oca|Oca]] 10:23, 31 Oct 2003 (UTC)

:Merged; see [[Wikipedia:Pokeprosal]] for details. [[User:Radiant!|R]][[User_talk:Radiant!|adiant]][[meta:mergist|_*]] 10:03, Jun 2, 2005 (UTC)

== GA: sorry, no==

This is scrupulously edited, and plainly represents a lot of work. However, the overwhelming majority of the article is about what the character does within its fictional universe. (Exceptions at the very end are about how people can spend money on it.) Meanwhile, [[WP:WIAGA#Articles dealing with fiction|WIAGA]] says: ''The focus of the article should remain on discussing the subject as fiction within the context of &quot;our&quot; universe, not on establishing it as a &quot;real&quot; topic in a fictional universe....'' To my mind, the focus is on the latter, and thus the article is not a good one according to WIAGA. -- [[User:Hoary|Hoary]] 06:39, 27 June 2006 (UTC)

:Writing about fiction from an 'out of universe' perspective isn't easy, but is important. Check out the guideline on writing about fiction: [[Wikipedia:Manual of Style (writing about fiction)]]. Articles going for Good or Featured status should make a strong attempt to follow this guideline. [[User:Phidauex|Phidauex]] 16:37, 4 July 2006 (UTC)

::Here's my explanation of why I think the Eevee article passes 'out-of-universe'.  I went through the list at [[WP:WAF]] of what should be included to give an out-of-universe perspective.  I notice that many of the things on the list can be labeled as cruft for this particular franchise.  For example, take &quot;Real-world factors which have influenced the work&quot;.  Unless a PokéDex entry gives a comparison, there would be no way to make a connection from Eevee to the real world without using original research.  I can't see what an example article written in the 'out-of-universe' style like [[Lakitu]] has that Eevee doesn't.  Since the last nomination, here are the changes that HC made, trying to give an out-of-universe perspective: http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Eevee&amp;diff=62537989&amp;oldid=61751966.  I apologize if not enough communication has been made over this.  [[User:PrimeCupEevee|&lt;font color=&quot;brown&quot;&gt;PCEevee&lt;/font&gt;]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:PrimeCupEevee|''&lt;font color=&quot;brown&quot;&gt;talk&lt;/font&gt;'']]&lt;/sup&gt; 14:41, 7 July 2006 (UTC)

==This is a [[WP:GA|Good Article]]==

After following this article for a while, I think the editors have made a good effort toward comprehensiveness, and an 'out of universe' perspective, in-so-far as it is possible in an article of this type. Thus, it meets the [[WP:WIAGA|qualifications]] for a Good Article. As with the other Pokemon-articles, continue to strive for relevance outside the world of Pokemon (not easy, I know, but it's still important), completeness, and a limited use of jargon and technical language.

Also, I'd like to ask that editors refrain from 'hammering' the GA nomination list by nominating the same article many times in a very short period, or from attempting to bypass the system by renominating articles without making changes in an attempt to get a 'lenient' reviewer. The technique is starting to attract some attention, and could damage the reputation of the Pokemon articles and project. Being satisfied with your work is more important than a category tag. Improve the articles for yourself, and recognition will come with time, there is no need to force it. [[User:Phidauex|Phidauex]] 19:14, 8 July 2006 (UTC)

== Names of Grass and Ice Evolutions Revealed ==

The Japenese names are Grass is Leafia and Glacia [http://www.pokebeach.com/dp/pokemon/]

== SSB:B ==

I find the &quot;could appear as a playable character in Super Smash Brothers Brawl&quot; as suspiciously too close to OR; I am excising it.  If anyone objects, inform me. -[[User:Jeske Couriano|Jeske]] ([[User talk:Jeske Couriano|SHOUT!]]) 22:19, 9 October 2006 (UTC)

== moved merchandising ==

This paragraph does not contribute significantly to the article and the links all go to stores.  It's basically an ad right now, but i feel it could be made into something better.  Contributions? -[[User:Zappernapper|Zappernapper]]
''(text moved back to article)''
:I was just going to throw the Commerative DVD info in when I noticed the paragraph was missing...  Anyway, that paragraph is necessary for the article.  Its goal is not to sell stuff; rather, it is to convey that Eevee has significance in this universe and is worthy of a GA.  One of the main criticisms (heck, just read the other topics further up on this page) is that more emphasis is placed on Eevee's role in the Pokémon universe rather than our own.  The article has to show products featuring Eevee so that it has an in-universe perspective.  However, I definitely am open to the suggestion that it could be reworded and such to make it sound less like an ad.  I don't have much time right now to rewrite, I'm afraid.  [[User:PrimeCupEevee|&lt;font color=&quot;brown&quot;&gt;PCEevee&lt;/font&gt;]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:PrimeCupEevee|''&lt;font color=&quot;brown&quot;&gt;talk&lt;/font&gt;'']]&lt;/sup&gt; 03:09, 2 November 2006 (UTC)
::In order to make it seem less like an advert, AVOID NAMING SPECIFIC PRODUCTS.  [[WP:NOT|Wikipedia is NOT]] an advertisement OR an indiscriminate collection of information.
Besides, there's an &quot;Eevee in other media&quot; section for that, isn't there?  If Eevee is wothy of a Good Article, then let it be on its own merits, not its own merchandise. -[[User:Jeske Couriano|Jeske]] &lt;sup&gt;([[User talk:Jeske Couriano|v^_^v]])&lt;/sup&gt; 03:42, 2 November 2006 (UTC)

Per the PCP (unofficial) style guide, the one we use for FAs that isn't written down, We have a &quot;In other media&quot; section for merchandising to prove it's out of universe popularity and notability and to prove it has an impact this culture. Cheers, [[User:HighwayCello|H]]&lt;font color=&quot;green&quot;&gt;[[User:HighwayCello/Esperanza|ig]]&lt;/font&gt;[[User:HighwayCello|hway]] &lt;b&gt;&lt;sup&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;#CCCCFF&quot;&gt;[[User talk:HighwayCello|Grammar Enforcer!]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;/b&gt; 08:03, 2 November 2006 (UTC)

:i fully understand the reason for the section, and agree it's an important asset to the article, which is why i didn't just remove it.  i wanted it to be imporved upon here (so go ahead and add the commemorative DVD info) and felt that being in the article as it was, was more damaging than leaving it in.  My largest issue, i suppose is that after mentioning an item, there's an external link going directly to that product (the pokeDoll is defunct however).  While many of the items are pokemon.com exclusive, it gives the sense of endorsement by the editors.  One ref link, perhaps merely to pokemon.com itself after a sentence describing how they have made several exclusive eevee products would improve it.  also, rather than having a full sentence saying: there's an eevee this.  there's an eevee that. it should prolly read as eevee has been made into this, that, and those. -[[User:Zappernapper|Zappernapper]] 14:35, 2 November 2006 (UTC)

::I'll leave that to PCEevee, he's the main author of the article. [[User:HighwayCello|H]]&lt;font color=&quot;green&quot;&gt;[[User:HighwayCello/Esperanza|ig]]&lt;/font&gt;[[User:HighwayCello|hway]] &lt;b&gt;&lt;sup&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;#CCCCFF&quot;&gt;[[User talk:HighwayCello|Grammar Enforcer!]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;/b&gt; 21:01, 2 November 2006 (UTC)

:::You know what?  I really like that suggestion.  I'll implement it as soon as I can (school can be a hassle at times).  If you want to do it, go right ahead.  [[User:PrimeCupEevee|&lt;font color=&quot;brown&quot;&gt;PCEevee&lt;/font&gt;]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:PrimeCupEevee|''&lt;font color=&quot;brown&quot;&gt;talk&lt;/font&gt;'']]&lt;/sup&gt; 02:57, 4 November 2006 (UTC)

well this sat here long enough, i made some fixes and moved it back. -[[User:PokeZap|PokeZap (Zappernapper)]] 14:57, 2 July 2007 (UTC)

== Name Romanization ==

The kana clearly read 'ivui' yet the name is romanized here (and at bulbapedia!!) as 'Eievui' which adds two extra kana that are not there. What's up with that? Is that its official romanized name as found on official art that uses romaji? &lt;small&gt;—The preceding [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|unsigned]] comment was added by [[Special:Contributions/75.73.48.43|75.73.48.43]] ([[User talk:75.73.48.43|talk]]) 01:53, 11 January 2007 (UTC).&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- HagermanBot Auto-Unsigned --&gt;



== GA removal ==

#One-two sentence paragraphs.
#No source for name origin.
#Do we need to know every single location of an Eevee? - [[User:A Link to the Past|A Link to the Past]] [[User talk:A Link to the Past|(talk)]] 20:00, 14 June 2007 (UTC)

:i wasn't aware short paragraphs were grounds for disqualification... at any rate, the version that was up when you posted here was one i had improved a while ago but it was slowly reverted a few edits at a time. i've reapplied the changes, and hopefully you agree it's for the better. etymology, boilerplate, speculation, game-guide, and irrelevant info was removed from the lead, bio.char. and video game sections. i merely reorganized Eevee locations into a somewhat more logical order. the reason is that Eevee is consistently a special &quot;gift&quot; pokemon, very different from almost any other pokemon available. this isn't the same thing as listing the Rt. numbers you can find Rattata on. i also commented on the trophy garden below. -[[User:Zappernapper|ΖαππερΝαππερ]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:Zappernapper|Babel]]&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;sub&gt;[[Special:Contributions/Zappernapper|Alexandria]]&lt;/sub&gt; 08:34, 25 June 2007 (UTC)

== Trophy Garden? ==

Can you really get Eevee in the trophy garden, as this article states? I don't think this is true, so it should be removed... [[User:Crowstar|~Crowstar~]] 18:12, 21 June 2007 (UTC)
:I've caught 7 Eevees in the Trophy Garden, just so I can have the whole family, so, yeah, you can. [[User:70.44.146.95|70.44.146.95]] 16:40, 25 June 2007 (UTC)
:You can catch it wild in D/P; I don't know where, though. -''[[User:Jeske Couriano|Jeske]]'' &lt;sup&gt;&lt;small&gt;(&lt;font color=&quot;0000FF&quot;&gt;[[User talk:Jeske Couriano|v^_^v]]&lt;/font&gt;)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;/sup&gt; 19:33, 21 June 2007 (UTC)
::Trophy Garden. Both one GameFAQs guide and Serebii.net state this. But regardless, we do not need to know where it can be acquired unless it is extremely rare (ie, one or two appearances). - [[User:A Link to the Past|A Link to the Past]] [[User talk:A Link to the Past|(talk)]] 22:27, 21 June 2007 (UTC)
:::there happen to be many rare pokemon that can only be found in the trophy garden, this is also the first time eevee can be obtained &quot;in the wild&quot; doesn't that deserve special mention? -[[User:Zappernapper|ΖαππερΝαππερ]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:Zappernapper|Babel]]&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;sub&gt;[[Special:Contributions/Zappernapper|Alexandria]]&lt;/sub&gt; 08:24, 25 June 2007 (UTC)
::::The fact that it can be obtained in the wild is notable. How or where? Not even warranting a mention. - [[User:A Link to the Past|A Link to the Past]] [[User talk:A Link to the Past|(talk)]] 17:26, 25 June 2007 (UTC)
:::::that would be true if we didn't have anything to say about it or if it wouldn't affect the reader's understanding, but it does. we don't write &quot;found on Rt. 14&quot; because it makes no difference to the reader if we were to say &quot;found on Rt. 12&quot; without technical understanding outside the scope of the project. but being found on a few random routes is not the same as being found in a very specific place (if Eevee could be caught in the wild on Rt. 225 we wouldn't be having this discussion), and not mentioning where leaves the reader to form their own, likely inaccurate, conclusions. getting eevee is still a very special event, but not mentioning the Trophy Garden and lightly explaining what it is effectively leaves the reader ignorant. [[User:Zappernapper|ΖαππερΝαππερ]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:Zappernapper|Babel]]&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;sub&gt;[[Special:Contributions/Zappernapper|Alexandria]]&lt;/sub&gt; 17:55, 27 June 2007 (UTC)
::::::Eevee is in the trophy garden and you can get one from Bebe after getting the National Dex. This information I have seen is on atleast 5 sites. -[[User:LatiRider|I PWN U ALL]] 04:09, 5 July 2007 (UTC)
::::::We do '''not''' need to know where to find him. If you can name one reason to include that info outside of &quot;to act as a guide for readers&quot;, I'd be pretty shocked. - [[User:A Link to the Past|A Link to the Past]] [[User talk:A Link to the Past|(talk)]] 18:11, 7 July 2007 (UTC)

== Virgil's Eevee ==

I'm shocked that no one has edited the page for Eevee's anime appearances to include Virgil's Eevee. Someone needs to get on that.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/96.243.195.35|96.243.195.35]] ([[User talk:96.243.195.35|talk]]) 22:46, 25 March 2013 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>