<article id="41894341" title=User talk:75.174.118.105>
	<talkpage id="41894341" title="User talk:75.174.118.105">

== Welcome! ==
{| align=&quot;center&quot; class=&quot;notice noprint&quot; style=&quot;background: lightyellow; border: 1px solid #aaa; padding: 0.5em; margin: 0.5em auto;&quot;
|-
| valign=&quot;top&quot; style=&quot;padding: 0.1em&quot; |
| style=&quot;padding: 0.1em&quot; | 

Hello, and '''''[[Wikipedia:Welcome, newcomers|welcome]] to Wikipedia!'''''

Someone using this [[IP address]], {{BASEPAGENAME}}, has made unhelpful edits&amp;nbsp;to the page [[:Maya architecture]], which have been [[Help:Reverting|reverted]].  If you did this, in the future please try to contribute in a more constructive manner.  If you'd like to experiment with the syntax, please do so in the [[Wikipedia:Sandbox|sandbox]] rather than in articles. If you did not do this, you may wish to consider &lt;span class=&quot;plainlinks&quot;&gt;[{{fullurl:Special:Userlogin|type=signup&amp;campaign=anonwelcometemplate}} getting a username]&lt;/span&gt; to avoid confusion with other editors.

You don't have to [[Special:Userlogin|log in]] to read or edit articles on Wikipedia, but creating an account is quick, free, requires no personal information, and has many [[Wikipedia:Why create an account?|benefits]].  Without a username, your [[IP address]] is used to identify you.

Some good links for newcomers are:
*[[Help:Contents|Help contents]] – the main help page.
*[[Wikipedia:Quick guide|Quick guide]] – a &quot;cheatsheet&quot; listing the main editing commands.
*[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
*[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]

Please [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|sign your name]] on talk pages using four tildes (~&amp;#126;~~); this will automatically produce your name and a timestamp. If you need help, check out [[Wikipedia:Questions]], ask me on [[User talk:Denisarona{{!}}my talk page]], or place &lt;code&gt;{&amp;#123;helpme}}&lt;/code&gt; on your talk page and someone will show up shortly to answer your questions.

Again, welcome!&lt;!-- Template:Welcome-anon-unconstructive --&gt; [[User:Denisarona|Denisarona]] ([[User talk:Denisarona|talk]]) 21:27, 9 February 2014 (UTC)
|}
	</talkpage>
</article>