<article id="4732426" title=Talk:Vaso Čubrilović>
	<talkpage id="4732426" title="Talk:Vaso Čubrilović">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Biography|living=no
|class=start
|military-work-group=yes
|listas=Cubrilovic, Vaso
}}
{{WikiProject Military history|class=start|WWI-task-force=yes|Biography=yes|Balkan=yes}}
{{WikiProject University of Belgrade}}
{{WikiProject Serbia|class=start|importance=low}}
}}

== Expulsion of Albanians == 

[http://www.elsie.de/pdf/B2002GatheringClouds.pdf] on page 46, one can read the translated version of the plan of expulsion of Albanians from different areas in the Balkans. The author refers to the original version in Serbian that can be found in the name: Iseljavanje Arnauta. Manuscript in the Institute of Military History of the Yugoslav People’s Army (Vojno Istorijski Institut JNA). Archives of the former Yugoslav Army (Arhiv Bivše Jugoslovenske Vojske), Belgrade, 7 March 1937. No. 2, Fasc. 4, Box 69. 19 pp.[[User:Ilir pz|Ilir pz]] 10:37, 13 April 2006 (UTC)&lt;br /&gt;


-------
He did write the memorandum and in light of what happened in 1990's (methods and goals) it seems appropriate to mention it.
you may also see citations here: http://books.google.com/books?spell=1&amp;q=vaso+%22expulsion+of+albanians%22 
[[User:Keep it Fake|Keep it Fake]] ([[User talk:Keep it Fake|talk]]) 19:41, 27 April 2008 (UTC)

== Last Franz Josef assasination conspirator? ==

Surely Vaso was the last living conspirator that &quot;initiated&quot; WW1 ? [[User:Engr105th|Engr105th]] ([[User talk:Engr105th|talk]]) 23:41, 5 March 2008 (UTC)

== Reference to Gavrilo Princip ==
Is a reference to Gavrilo Princip missing in the first paragraph? It refers to him by his last name but doesn't seem to introduce him. [[Special:Contributions/72.33.58.15|72.33.58.15]] ([[User talk:72.33.58.15|talk]]) 15:25, 24 March 2015 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>