<article id="1529446" title=Talk:Welsh cake>
	<talkpage id="1529446" title="Talk:Welsh cake">
{{WikiProject Food and drink|class=stub|importance=low}}
{{WikiProject Wales|class=stub|importance=low}}

==Comments==
Surely Welsh cakes are called &quot;pice ar y maen&quot; in Welsh, not &quot;teisen lap&quot;, which is something different. [[User:Deb|Deb]] 16:56, 20 Feb 2005 (UTC)

:I've always heard it as teisen Gymraeg.  Is this a north/south thing? [[User:Vashti|Vashti]] 16:47, 21 February 2006 (UTC)

==Finding Welsh cakes==
I've just moved to London, and I expected to be able to find Welsh cakes in every Sainsbury's and Tesco... Where can I buy Welsh cakes!? Thanks. [[User:LordAmeth|LordAmeth]] 21:17, 8 October 2006 (UTC)
:...you can't get them in London?  They're in every supermarket here in Cardiff - maybe you should consider a day trip. :) [[User:Vashti|Vashti]] 09:03, 9 October 2006 (UTC)
::Yeah, see, that's what I was surprised about. Okay, well, the Canolfan Cymry Llundain is just around the corner. Maybe I'll go bother them. [[User:LordAmeth|LordAmeth]] 09:22, 9 October 2006 (UTC)
::I have made these with my grandmother since I was born it seems :) The recipe is farely easy, and it makes A LOT of them.  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/72.130.9.188|72.130.9.188]] ([[User talk:72.130.9.188|talk]]) 00:59, 11 June 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== With jam and a pot of tea? ==

With jam and a pot of tea? Really? Buttered? Split? Never come across anything like that and I can't help but think that this refers to scones rather than proper Welsh Cakes. Still, it does say it's a Valleys thing, in which case can someone from the Valleys give a reference (I want proof!) [[User:DewiMR|DewiMR]] ([[User talk:DewiMR|talk]]) 23:03, 1 March 2011 (UTC)

== Welsh speaker needed... ==

This article describes Welsh cakes, in Welsh, as ''picau ar y maen'', ''pice bach'', ''cacen gri'' or ''teisen radell''.  And yet [[:cy:Teisen gri|the article]] at cy:WP uses the words ''teisennau cri''.  What's the explanation for the different words?  [[User:Ghmyrtle|Ghmyrtle]] ([[User talk:Ghmyrtle|talk]]) 22:42, 23 April 2012 (UTC)

== Yeast cake section? ==

If they use self-raising flour, why are they listed in the Yeast Cake section of the Cake catagory?  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/83.70.170.48|83.70.170.48]] ([[User talk:83.70.170.48|talk]]) 15:46, 14 August 2012 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

==July 2013==
The BBC link is broken. 13 Jul 2013 (UTC)  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/66.219.245.230|66.219.245.230]] ([[User talk:66.219.245.230|talk]]) &lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:Now fixed.  [[User:Ghmyrtle|Ghmyrtle]] ([[User talk:Ghmyrtle|talk]]) 09:45, 13 July 2013 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>