<article id="23247985" title=User talk:209.195.65.203>
	<talkpage id="23247985" title="User talk:209.195.65.203">
'''Welcome'''

Hello, and [[Wikipedia:Introduction|welcome]] to Wikipedia! Thank you for [[Special:Contributions/{{BASEPAGENAME}}|your contributions]]{{#if:|, such as the one you made to [[:{{{art}}}]]|}}. I hope you like the place and decide to stay. Here are some pages you might like to see:

* [[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
* [[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]]
* [[Help:Contents|Help pages]]
* [[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
* [[Wikipedia:How to write a great article|How to write a great article]]
* [[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]]

You are welcome to continue editing articles without [[Special:Userlogin|logging in]], but you may wish to '''&lt;span class=&quot;plainlinks&quot;&gt;[{{fullurl:Special:Userlogin|type=signup}} create an account]&lt;/span&gt;'''. Doing so is free, requires no personal information, and provides several [[Wikipedia:Why create an account?|benefits]]. If you edit without a username, your [[IP address]] ({{BASEPAGENAME}}) is used to identify you instead.

In any case, I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! Please [[Wikipedia:Signatures|sign your comments]] on talk pages using four tildes (&lt;nowiki&gt;~~~~&lt;/nowiki&gt;); this will automatically produce your IP address (or username if you're logged in) and the date. If you need help, check out [[Wikipedia:Questions]], ask me on [[User talk:XLinkBot|my talk page]], or ask your question and then place &lt;code&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;{{&lt;/nowiki&gt;[[:Category:Wikipedians looking for help|helpme]]&lt;nowiki&gt;}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;&lt;/code&gt; before the question on this page. Again, welcome! &lt;!-- Template:welcome-anon --&gt;  --[[User:XLinkBot|XLinkBot]] ([[User talk:XLinkBot|talk]]) 00:36, 17 June 2009 (UTC)
== June 2009 ==
Welcome to Wikipedia. Although everyone is welcome to contribute constructively to the encyclopedia, your addition of one or more external links to the page [[:Microphone]] has been reverted.&lt;br /&gt;Your edit [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?diff=296864448&amp;oldid=296443471 here] was reverted by an automated bot that attempts to remove [[WP:NOT#REPOSITORY|unwanted links]] and [[WP:SPAM|spam]] from Wikipedia.  The external link you added or changed is on my list of links to remove and probably shouldn't be included in Wikipedia.  The external links I reverted were matching the following [[regex|regex rule(s)]]: \byoutube\.com (links: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_dabqvphq_m).  If the external link you inserted or changed was to a [[Wikipedia:Media|media]] file (e.g. a [[Wikipedia:Media help|sound or video]] file) on an external server, then note that linking to such files may be subject to Wikipedia's [[WP:COPYRIGHT|copyright policy]] and therefore probably should not be linked to.  Please consider using our [[Wikipedia:Upload|upload]] facility to upload a suitable media file.  Video links are also ''strongly'' deprecated by our [[WP:ELNO|guidelines for external links]], partly because they're useless to people with slow internet connections.&lt;br /&gt;If you were trying to insert an [[Wikipedia:External links|external link]] that does comply with our [[Wikipedia:List of policies|policies]] and [[Wikipedia:List of guidelines|guidelines]], then please accept my creator's apologies and feel free to undo the bot's revert.  However, if the link does not comply with our policies and guidelines, but your edit included other changes to the article, feel free to make those changes again without re-adding the link.  Please read Wikipedia's [[WP:EL|external links guideline]] for more information, and consult my [[User:XLinkBot/Reversion reasons|list of frequently-reverted sites]]. For more information about me, see [[User:XLinkBot/FAQ|my FAQ page]]. Thanks! --[[User:XLinkBot|XLinkBot]] ([[User talk:XLinkBot|talk]]) 00:36, 17 June 2009 (UTC)&lt;br /&gt;&lt;small&gt;If this is a shared [[IP address]], and you didn't make the edit, please ignore this notice.&lt;/small&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>