<article id="12002822" title=Talk:Ball 'n Chain (Big Mama Thornton song)>
	<talkpage id="12002822" title="Talk:Ball 'n Chain (Big Mama Thornton song)">
{{WikiProject Songs|class=C}}

== Chronology ==

How is it that Big Brother famously performed the song in 1967, but Thornton did not release her song until 1968?  How did Big Brother get the song?  There must have been a demo recording, or sheet music, or something like that, from which they learned her song.  Or is there a mistake?   We should try to find out more.  I'll copy the information from [[Big_Mama_Thornton#Career]], but we should get more, preferably from an online source. [[User:DougHill|DougHill]] ([[User talk:DougHill|talk]]) 18:22, 12 September 2014 (UTC)

:Copied.  But if that copied source is correct, how did Bay-Tone Records get the copyright?  Did Thornton sign it over?  The quoted segment makes it sound like their failure to release the song earlier had something to do with the copyright, but this is unclear. [[User:DougHill|DougHill]] ([[User talk:DougHill|talk]]) 18:31, 12 September 2014 (UTC)

::The complete AllMusic quote is &quot;Early-'60s 45s for Irma, Bay-Tone, Kent, and Sotoplay did little to revive her sagging fortunes, but a series of dates for Arhoolie that included her first vinyl rendition of &quot;Ball and Chain&quot; in 1968 and two albums for Mercury in 1969-1970 put her back in circulation (Janis Joplin's overwrought but well-intentioned cover of &quot;Ball and Chain&quot; didn't hurt either). &quot;[http://www.allmusic.com/artist/big-mama-thornton-mn0000762288/biography].  In looking through online sources, there is no mention of an earlier recording.  It is certainly possible Joplin picked up the song from Thornton from live performances (both were active in the Bay Area at the same time).  The Bay-Tone claim sounds suspicious: a copyright is filed by the composer (a person, not a record company).  The Arhoolie single shows the songwriter as &quot;W. M. Thornton&quot; and the publisher as &quot;Baytone Music&quot; (see image in infobox); Joplin &amp; BB listed the writer as Thornton[http://www.discogs.com/viewimages?release=559560] (A publisher takes a cut of the fees, but not all, unless the songwriter signed their rights away).  BMI lists the songwriter as Thornton, but with a different publisher.[http://repertoire.bmi.com/title.asp?blnWriter=True&amp;blnPublisher=True&amp;blnArtist=True&amp;page=1&amp;keyid=82820&amp;ShowNbr=0&amp;ShowSeqNbr=0&amp;querytype=WorkID]  If the statement by Bay-Tone is true, why isn't someone else listed?  It is possible that a former manager or record label is just trying to muddy the waters for whatever reason.  If it had been recorded earlier, why hasn't it surfaced anywhere (bootleg or otherwise)?  The Bay-Tone statement in the article should be rewritten to reflect that it conflicts with other reliable sources. —[[User:Ojorojo|Ojorojo]] ([[User talk:Ojorojo|talk]]) 15:14, 14 September 2014 (UTC)

:::I agree.  Go ahead, or I'll try later. [[User:DougHill|DougHill]] ([[User talk:DougHill|talk]]) 17:37, 15 September 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>