<article id="1123964" title=Talk:Library of Congress Country Studies>
	<talkpage id="1123964" title="Talk:Library of Congress Country Studies">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject United States|class=Start|importance=Low}}
{{WikiProject Library of Congress|class=Start|importance=Low}}
{{WikiProject Libraries|class=Start|importance=Low}}
}}

==Untitled==
Cf. [[Wikipedia:Library of Congress Country Studies]]. --[[User:Joy|Joy &lt;small&gt;&lt;small&gt;&amp;#91;shallot&amp;#93;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;/small&gt;]] 12:03, 1 Nov 2004 (UTC)

I was thinking of adding a [[Wikipedia:WikiProject|Wikiproject]] devoted to using the Country Studies.  The project would track which ones have been used and would work towards the goal of fully utilizing all relevant information and useful text from the studies.  Does anyone wish to join or have thoughts about such a project?--[[User:Bkwillwm|Bkwillwm]] 20:57, 5 January 2006 (UTC)

==Wikiproject LOC Country Studies==
I have started a [[Wikipedia:WikiProject|Wikiproject]] that involves taking the [[public domain]] [[LOC Country Studies]] and incorporating them into [[Wikipedia]].  Go to the [[Wikipedia:WikiProject Library of Congress Country Studies]] to participate or observe progress.--[[User:Bkwillwm|Bkwillwm]] 01:04, 24 January 2006 (UTC)

==Soviet Union==

A number of articles about Soviet Union quote this source. I understand now all critics of US sovietologists. Why people quote such absurd texts?[[User:Xx236|Xx236]] ([[User talk:Xx236|talk]]) 10:56, 17 June 2008 (UTC)

== Circular reference ==

This article's entry on [[Thailand]] refers me, not to the LOC country study, but the Wikipedia's article! THAT article's entry for LOCCS refers me right back here! I have to pay for my Internet time and don't appreciate the joke. --[[User:Pawyilee|Pawyilee]] ([[User talk:Pawyilee|talk]]) 08:28, 8 October 2011 (UTC)
:Clarifying the circular reference issue advises users what actually happens, and adding it to the article qualifies  as [[common sense|sound and prudent judgment based on a simple perception of the situation or facts]]. --[[User:Pawyilee|Pawyilee]] ([[User talk:Pawyilee|talk]]) 08:47, 9 October 2011 (UTC)

== Useful links bumped from front page ==

* [http://lcweb2.loc.gov/frd/cs/ Country Studies online] at the Library of Congress
* [http://countrystudies.us/ Country Studies]
This website contains the on-line versions of books previously published in hard copy by the Federal Research Division of the Library of Congress as part of the Country Studies/Area Handbook Series sponsored by the U.S. Department of the Army between 1986 and 1998. Each study offers a comprehensive description and analysis of the country or region's historical setting, geography, society, economy, political system, and foreign policy.
;Others
The LOCCS website offers subject matter only one page at a time, which may then be copied. As all text is in public domain (though not all images,) other web sites may be found by search that offer complete studies, making it much easier to locate matters of interest. Such should then be compared with that at LOCCS to insure it is up to date. Example:
*[http://www.mongabay.com/reference/country_studies/ Mongabay country profiles]
--[[User:Pawyilee|Pawyilee]] ([[User talk:Pawyilee|talk]]) 01:46, 10 November 2011 (UTC)

==Self ref = or how to refer to LOCSS pages in WP articles==
(Removed from article)
Using [[Template:Country study]] in affected articles generates a link that directs to the title page of study. LOCSS' study material opens in separate pages that are set to expire, and cannot be bookmarked or linked.  This insures that only the most up-to-date study material may be viewed. [[Citation]] to give appropriate credit and to allow verification of copied text as being up-to-date are not required, but may be accomplished by using one of the many [[Wikipedia:Citation templates|Wikipedia citation templates]]. [[WebCite]] may be used to create an archive of the [[URL]] of a non-LOCCS country-study site. For general guidelines, see [[Wikipedia:Citing sources|Wikipedia guidelines on citing sources]].

-- cut here --

''[[User:Rich Farmbrough|Rich]]&amp;nbsp;[[User talk:Rich Farmbrough|Farmbrough]]'', &lt;small&gt;13:37, 24 November 2011&amp;nbsp;(UTC).&lt;/small&gt;&lt;br /&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>