<article id="17914842" title=User talk:213.107.81.24>
	<talkpage id="17914842" title="User talk:213.107.81.24">

== June 2008 ==
Welcome to Wikipedia. Although everyone is welcome to contribute constructively to the encyclopedia, your addition of one or more external links to the page [[:Voorhees (band)]] has been reverted. Your edit [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Voorhees_%28band%29&amp;diff=218965303&amp;oldid=212050631 here] was reverted by an automated bot that attempts to remove [[WP:NOT#REPOSITORY|unwanted links]] and [[WP:SPAM|spam]] from Wikipedia.  The external link you added or changed is on my list of links to remove and probably shouldn't be included in Wikipedia.	 The external links I reverted were matching the following [[regex|regex rule(s)]]: rule: '\bmyspace\.com' (link(s): http://www.myspace.com/blackoperationsmusic) . If the external link you inserted or changed was to a [[blog]], [[forum]], [[free web hosting service]], or similar site, then please check the information on the external site thorougly. Note that such sites should probably not be linked to if they contain information that is in violation of the creators [[Wikipedia:COPYRIGHT|copyright]] (see [[Wikipedia:COPYRIGHT#Linking to copyrighted works|Linking to copyrighted works]]), or they are not written by a recognised, [[Wikipedia:Reliable sources|reliable source]]. Linking to sites that you are involved with is also strongly discouraged (see [[Wikipedia:Conflict of interest|conflict of interest]]).

If you were trying to insert an [[Wikipedia:External links|external link]] that does comply with our [[Wikipedia:List of policies|policies]] and [[Wikipedia:List of guidelines|guidelines]], then please accept my creator's apologies and feel free to undo the bot's revert.  Please read Wikipedia's [[WP:EL|external links guideline]] for more information, and consult my [[User:XLinkBot/Reversion reasons|list of frequently-reverted sites]]. For more information about me, see [[User:XLinkBot/FAQ|my FAQ page]]. Thanks! --[[User:XLinkBot|XLinkBot]] ([[User talk:XLinkBot|talk]]) 23:42, 12 June 2008 (UTC)

&lt;small&gt;If this is a shared [[IP address]], and you didn't make the edit, please ignore this notice.&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:uw-spam2 --&gt;

== August 2008 ==
Welcome to Wikipedia. Although everyone is welcome to contribute constructively to the encyclopedia, your addition of one or more external links to the page [[:Voorhees (band)]] has been reverted. Your edit [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Voorhees_(band)&amp;diff=232683036&amp;oldid=232682724 here] was reverted by an automated bot that attempts to remove [[WP:NOT#REPOSITORY|unwanted links]] and [[WP:SPAM|spam]] from Wikipedia.  The external link you added or changed is on my list of links to remove and probably shouldn't be included in Wikipedia.	 The external links I reverted were matching the following [[regex|regex rule(s)]]: rule: '\bmyspace\.com' (link(s): http://www.myspace.com/blackoperationsmusic) . If the external link you inserted or changed was to a [[blog]], [[forum]], [[free web hosting service]], or similar site, then please check the information on the external site thoroughly. Note that such sites should probably not be linked to if they contain information that is in violation of the creators [[Wikipedia:COPYRIGHT|copyright]] (see [[Wikipedia:COPYRIGHT#Linking to copyrighted works|Linking to copyrighted works]]), or they are not written by a recognised, [[Wikipedia:Reliable sources|reliable source]]. Linking to sites that you are involved with is also strongly discouraged (see [[Wikipedia:Conflict of interest|conflict of interest]]).

If you were trying to insert an [[Wikipedia:External links|external link]] that does comply with our [[Wikipedia:List of policies|policies]] and [[Wikipedia:List of guidelines|guidelines]], then please accept my creator's apologies and feel free to undo the bot's revert.  Please read Wikipedia's [[WP:EL|external links guideline]] for more information, and consult my [[User:XLinkBot/Reversion reasons|list of frequently-reverted sites]]. For more information about me, see [[User:XLinkBot/FAQ|my FAQ page]]. Thanks! --[[User:XLinkBot|XLinkBot]] ([[User talk:XLinkBot|talk]]) 13:31, 18 August 2008 (UTC)

&lt;small&gt;If this is a shared [[IP address]], and you didn't make the edit, please ignore this notice.&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:uw-spam1 --&gt;

== October 2008 ==
Welcome to Wikipedia. Although everyone is welcome to contribute constructively to the encyclopedia, your addition of one or more external links to the page [[:Hanatarash]] has been reverted. Your edit [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Hanatarash&amp;diff=247106953&amp;oldid=207983779 here] was reverted by an automated bot that attempts to remove [[WP:NOT#REPOSITORY|unwanted links]] and [[WP:SPAM|spam]] from Wikipedia.  The external link you added or changed is on my list of links to remove and probably shouldn't be included in Wikipedia.	 The external links I reverted were matching the following [[regex|regex rule(s)]]: rule: '\bmyspace\.com' (link(s): http://www.myspace.com/hanatarash) . If the external link you inserted or changed was to a [[blog]], [[forum]], [[free web hosting service]], or similar site, then please check the information on the external site thoroughly. Note that such sites should probably not be linked to if they contain information that is in violation of the creator's [[Wikipedia:COPYRIGHT|copyright]] (see [[Wikipedia:COPYRIGHT#Linking to copyrighted works|Linking to copyrighted works]]), or they are not written by a recognised, [[Wikipedia:Reliable sources|reliable source]]. Linking to sites that you are involved with is also strongly discouraged (see [[Wikipedia:Conflict of interest|conflict of interest]]).

If you were trying to insert an [[Wikipedia:External links|external link]] that does comply with our [[Wikipedia:List of policies|policies]] and [[Wikipedia:List of guidelines|guidelines]], then please accept my creator's apologies and feel free to undo the bot's revert.  Please read Wikipedia's [[WP:EL|external links guideline]] for more information, and consult my [[User:XLinkBot/Reversion reasons|list of frequently-reverted sites]]. For more information about me, see [[User:XLinkBot/FAQ|my FAQ page]]. Thanks! --[[User:XLinkBot|XLinkBot]] ([[User talk:XLinkBot|talk]]) 04:35, 23 October 2008 (UTC)

&lt;small&gt;If this is a shared [[IP address]], and you didn't make the edit, please ignore this notice.&lt;/small&gt;

== January 2009 ==
Welcome to Wikipedia. Although everyone is welcome to contribute constructively to the encyclopedia, your addition of one or more external links to the page [[:Hanatarash]] has been reverted. Your edit [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?diff=261240598&amp;oldid=258426854 here] was reverted by an automated bot that attempts to remove [[WP:NOT#REPOSITORY|unwanted links]] and [[WP:SPAM|spam]] from Wikipedia.  The external link you added or changed is on my list of links to remove and probably shouldn't be included in Wikipedia.	 The external links I reverted were matching the following [[regex|regex rule(s)]]: rule: '\bmyspace\.com' (link(s): http://www.myspace.com/hanatarash) . If the external link you inserted or changed was to a [[blog]], [[forum]], [[free web hosting service]], or similar site, then please check the information on the external site thoroughly. Note that such sites should probably not be linked to if they contain information that is in violation of the creator's [[Wikipedia:COPYRIGHT|copyright]] (see [[Wikipedia:COPYRIGHT#Linking to copyrighted works|Linking to copyrighted works]]), or they are not written by a recognised, [[Wikipedia:Reliable sources|reliable source]]. Linking to sites that you are involved with is also strongly discouraged (see [[Wikipedia:Conflict of interest|conflict of interest]]).

If you were trying to insert an [[Wikipedia:External links|external link]] that does comply with our [[Wikipedia:List of policies|policies]] and [[Wikipedia:List of guidelines|guidelines]], then please accept my creator's apologies and feel free to undo the bot's revert.  Please read Wikipedia's [[WP:EL|external links guideline]] for more information, and consult my [[User:XLinkBot/Reversion reasons|list of frequently-reverted sites]]. For more information about me, see [[User:XLinkBot/FAQ|my FAQ page]]. Thanks! --[[User:XLinkBot|XLinkBot]] ([[User talk:XLinkBot|talk]]) 08:55, 1 January 2009 (UTC)

&lt;small&gt;If this is a shared [[IP address]], and you didn't make the edit, please ignore this notice.&lt;/small&gt;

== June 2009 ==
Welcome to Wikipedia. Although everyone is welcome to contribute constructively to the encyclopedia, your addition of one or more external links to the page [[:Voorhees (band)]] has been reverted.&lt;br /&gt;Your edit [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?diff=293719297&amp;oldid=282928237 here] was reverted by an automated bot that attempts to remove [[WP:NOT#REPOSITORY|unwanted links]] and [[WP:SPAM|spam]] from Wikipedia.  The external link you added or changed is on my list of links to remove and probably shouldn't be included in Wikipedia.  The external links I reverted were matching the following [[regex|regex rule(s)]]: \bmyspace\.com (links: http://www.myspace.com/blackoperationsmusic). &lt;br /&gt;If you were trying to insert an [[Wikipedia:External links|external link]] that does comply with our [[Wikipedia:List of policies|policies]] and [[Wikipedia:List of guidelines|guidelines]], then please accept my creator's apologies and feel free to undo the bot's revert.  However, if the link does not comply with our policies and guidelines, but your edit included other changes to the article, feel free to make those changes again without re-adding the link.  Please read Wikipedia's [[WP:EL|external links guideline]] for more information, and consult my [[User:XLinkBot/Reversion reasons|list of frequently-reverted sites]]. For more information about me, see [[User:XLinkBot/FAQ|my FAQ page]]. Thanks! --[[User:XLinkBot|XLinkBot]] ([[User talk:XLinkBot|talk]]) 13:50, 1 June 2009 (UTC)&lt;br /&gt;&lt;small&gt;If this is a shared [[IP address]], and you didn't make the edit, please ignore this notice.&lt;/small&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>