<article id="341726" title=Talk:Collagen>
	<talkpage id="341726" title="Talk:Collagen">
{{WikiProject Food and drink|class=Start|importance=|auto = yes}}
{{Wikiproject MCB|importance=high|class=Start}}

==Advice please==
a women at work has a sore on  her leg that she thinks looks like skin cancer and it is getting bigger.  they did an autopsy on it and they said that it was collagen.  does anyone know how to treat this? &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/66.60.217.106|66.60.217.106]] ([[User talk:66.60.217.106|talk]]) 23:46, October 15, 2003 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt;

:Wouldn't her doctor know how to treat it?

:[http://my.webmd.com/content/article/29/1728_63216.htm?lastselectedguid={5FE84E90-BC77-4056-A91C-9531713CA348} WebMD aticle] &lt;- This (copy-paste link) is the only thing I found that might somehow be related, but her doctor would know better so it would probably be a good idea to get his/her advice before trying anything... umm.. yeah. Also, I think you mean [[biopsy]]... [[User:Evil saltine|Evil saltine]] 23:50, 15 Oct 2003 (UTC)

==Edit mistake==

I edit the page to correct a grammatical error, and added a link to wild cats and drop bears, only to find that drop bears are some sort of Australian myth? Is there something that should be done about that? - Steve &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Stevenstclair|Stevenstclair]] ([[User talk:Stevenstclair|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Stevenstclair|contribs]]) 16:42, November 15, 2005 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned2 --&gt;

== Rife with inaccuracies ==

This article should be pulled for the time being as it full of inaccurate information. I will massively reconstruct it by Nov. 19, 2005. For the time being, this is what happens when sources are not cited!!! &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/18.244.6.225|18.244.6.225]] ([[User talk:18.244.6.225|talk]]) 12:25, November 16, 2005 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt;

:I removed that, since it sounded like a vandalism (I was only able to caught it when looking at the history, tought, as he changed type IV from basal lamina to somewhere in the penis). It's a shame it took from November 10 to 24 for someone to spot that error. [[User:Algumacoisaqq|Algumacoisaqq]] 22:31, 24 November 2005 (UTC)

=== Inconsistency about teeth ===
There is an inconsistency, as this article says &quot;Collagen has great tensile strength, and is the main component of fascia, cartilage, ligaments, tendons, bone and teeth.&quot;  But the article on &quot;teeth&quot; describes the components as Dentin (70% inorganic, 20% inorganic materials, which would include collagen and 10% water), Cementum (45% inorganic, 33% organic, and 22% water), Enamel (no collagen) .  So how is Collagen the &quot;main component of ... teeth&quot;?   kbj, 14-Jul-2007 &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/{{{IP|{{{User|72.186.166.3}}}}}}|{{{IP|{{{User|72.186.166.3}}}}}}]] ([[User talk:{{{IP|{{{User|72.186.166.3}}}}}}|talk]]) {{{Time|01:18, July 15, 2007 (UTC)}}}&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt;

== Removed stuff ==

Well, I just removed  &quot;The chemical formula is C2H5NOC5H9NOC5H10NO2.&quot; from the main article. I just can't believe that this information is right (I mean, it's just too short), but I'll leave it here, in case someone convinces me that it is. [[User:Algumacoisaqq|algumacoisaqq]] 12:46, 8 December 2005 (UTC)

:I have read of a new Collagen product now available here in the UK. It was developed in North America. I need some advise on whether there are any risks If I decide to start taking it(apparently  , tests revealed that there are no side affects).  It is in capsule form to be taken each night, and is 400mg of pure collagen per capsule. The trade name is Pure-Col. The information is that it is 'a molecular hydrolyzed collagen, generated by a unique process for better absobency using aminolock sequence technology'. This means nothing to me -though the product complies to the food safety act (and regulations). Would appreciate any advise. &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/82.9.118.100|82.9.118.100]] ([[User talk:82.9.118.100|talk]]) 18:26, January 30, 2006 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt;

::I take collagen dissolved in water as a dietary weight-loss supplement; however, after reading this article, it sounds like it may just be similar to [[gelatin]].  I'll do more research.  Gelatin is apparently a partialy hydrolyzed collagen...  04:32, 4 August 2006 (UTC)
::Just did some research.  Apparently, it's my not eating after 5pm that's causing weight loss.  &quot;Hydrolyzed collagen and gelatin hydrolysates are similar. See Gelatin.&quot; [http://www.gettingwell.com/drug_info/nmdrugprofiles/nutsupdrugs/hyd_0317.shtml]
::For more information, check &quot;Calorad scam&quot; on Google.  It appears I lost 30 pounds because of... diet and exercise.  The Calorad was largely a placebo, similar to [[stone soup]] in its effects coming from some other source, but motivated through the description of the placebo.  [[User:BlueNight|BlueNight]] 04:43, 4 August 2006 (UTC)

== Removed link ==

The link [http://www.kolagen.ws natural collagen] relates to a commercial site. So I removed it.--[[User:Victor D|'''Victor D''']] &lt;sup&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;Red&quot;&gt;[[User_talk:Victor D|'''PARLE''']]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/sup&gt; 15:00, 20 April 2006 (UTC)
:Don't know how but this site creeps into the article now and then. I removed it again because it promotes commercial products. Editors please ensure this on later accounts. --[[User:Victor D|'''Victor D''']] &lt;sup&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;Red&quot;&gt;[[User_talk:Victor D|'''PARLE''']]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/sup&gt; 19:31, 3 July 2006 (UTC)

:Ditto for the Puramatrix website...  *[http://www.puramatrix.com PuraMatrix Synthetic ECM]  15 Jul 2006
::But [http://www.puramatrix.com/pubs/index.htm this link] may be included which has peer-reviewed papers. [[User:Victor D|'''Victor D''']] &lt;sup&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;Red&quot;&gt;[[User_talk:Victor D|'''PARLE''']]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/sup&gt; 22:05, 11 September 2006 (UTC)
:::I have removed all of the www.puramatrix.com links. They have been added to numerous articles by {{vandal|Bioxpert}} and {{vandal|Zenchu}} whose edits almost exclusively involve adding puramatrix promotional information to articles. This is clearly a [[WP:ECOI|conflict of interest]]. [[User:JonHarder|JonHarder]] 13:42, 9 December 2006 (UTC)

== i dont get it ==

this article doesn't make any sense to me. Maybe it does say but I can't find anywhere what part of the animal this comes from, and about it being made into Jelly, what type of jelly. I can't find out anything anyway because it's full of scientific words. For example: Hydroxylation of lysine and proline amino acids occurs inside the lumen. This process is dependent on Ascorbic Acid (Vitamin C) as a cofactor. Someone should make this article more explanatory and less confusing! &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/203.59.200.187|203.59.200.187]] ([[User talk:203.59.200.187|talk]]) 21 December 2006 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt;
:: Basically, collagen is the scaffold an animal is built on.  So collagen is everywhere.  There is no collage organ, and no collagen distribution system.[[Special:Contributions/64.252.24.246|64.252.24.246]] ([[User talk:64.252.24.246|talk]]) 00:48, 15 February 2008 (UTC)

:::I agree that most articles on Wikipedia in the medical, scientific, and technical spheres are mystified with jargon. This makes them inaccessible to the casual reader. Creating in-WP links of jargony words is not a huge help as it forces readers to hop from article to article trying to figure out what things mean. Please reconsider how you write here on WP and take pity on people who come here to learn about topics that are new to them. If they can already understand, or have the ability to decipher the jargon, why would they need to come to WP in the first place? Thank you, [[User:Wordreader|Wordreader]] ([[User talk:Wordreader|talk]]) 20:59, 23 March 2015 (UTC)

== Birefringent? ==

Is collegen always birefringent? Does collagen affect the polerization of light? Would this be due to it's molecular structure or the orientation of the fibrils? Perhaps this results due to the co-aligned molecules of Type I collagen? &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:BlitX|BlitX]] ([[User talk:BlitX|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/BlitX|contribs]]) 18:38, April 18, 2007 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned2 --&gt;

== Medical uses - human collagen ==

The source cited (footnote 4) does not, as far as I can tell, indicate that human collagen is derived from &quot;aborted fetuses.&quot;  Nor can I find a credible source on the internet to indicate that it ever is.  Indeed, a discussion thread on Snopes [http://msgboard.snopes.com/cgi-bin/ultimatebb.cgi?/ubb/get_topic/f/80/t/000256.html] found evidence to the contrary.

The page cited in footnote 4 also does not verify the use of human placentas, though I did find two sources that do:[http://www.earthessentials.com/faq.html] (question #7) and [https://catalog.invitrogen.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=viewCatalog.viewProductDetails&amp;sku=&amp;productDescription=4019&amp;ref=http%3A%2F%2Fwww%2Egoogle%2Ecom%2Fsearch%3Fq%3Dhuman%2Bplacenta%2Bcollagen%26start%3D0%26ie%3Dutf%2D8%26oe%3Dutf%2D8%26client%3Dfirefox%2Da%26rls%3Dorg%2Emozilla%3Aen%2DUS%3Aofficial]  

Also, if we're going for the strange sources of human collagen, the cited page does mention &quot;neonatal foreskins&quot; as the source for the product Apligraf. &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:DrBoron|DrBoron]] ([[User talk:DrBoron|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/DrBoron|contribs]]) 15:57, June 28, 2007 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned2 --&gt;

I'm confused that medical and/or cosmetic use does not include any discussion of body shaping -- fattening the lips, for example. I saw a comment about an &quot;actress&quot; who has unnaturally big lips. Clearly there is more at work than lipstick and nature. The comment was that perhaps she had &quot;pissed off the collagen fairy.&quot; I assume that people arrange to have collagen injections to augment certain soft tissue such as the lips. I expected to learn more about that here; but I don't see that use mentioned. Am I wrong, or can someone provide more info? I have never contributed a comment before; hope I'm doing it correctly. [[User:Cadillac84|Cadillac84]] ([[User talk:Cadillac84|talk]]) 18:18, 17 March 2011 (UTC)

==Types of collagen and associated disorders - missing info==
There is an important disorder missing in this table, namely, the progressive illness known as ''Systemic Sclerosis'' or [[Scleroderma]]. Can any merciful soul add it in the right place, '''please'''? --[[User:AVM|AVM]] 17:04, 24 October 2007 (UTC)
:[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Collagen&amp;diff=166796160&amp;oldid=166525163] Merciful is my middle name. [[User:Twooars|Two Merciful Oars]]18:27, 24 October 2007 (UTC)

==[[WP:FOOD|WikiProject Food and drink]] Tagging==
This article talk page was automatically added with {{tl|WikiProject Food and drink}} banner as it falls under [[:Category:Food]] or [[User:TinucherianBot/Autotagg/WPFOOD/Category:Foods|one of its subcategories]]. If you find this addition an error, Kindly undo the changes and update the inappropriate categories if needed. The bot was instructed to tagg these articles upon consenus from WikiProject Food and drink. You can find the related request for tagging [[User:TinucherianBot/Autotagg/WPFOOD#Request_5|here]] . Maximum and carefull attention was done to avoid any wrongly tagging any categories , but mistakes may happen... If you have concerns , please inform on the [[Wikipedia talk:WikiProject Food and drink|project talk page]] -- [[User:TinucherianBot|TinucherianBot]] ([[User talk:TinucherianBot|talk]]) 18:11, 3 July 2008 (UTC)

== What do the colors in the picture mean? ==

What do the colors in the picture mean (like a certain molecule)?  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:R31415|R31415]] ([[User talk:R31415|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/R31415|contribs]]) 04:09, 5 December 2010 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Inconsistency between 8.2 and 8.6 ==

8.6 &quot;Reconstructive surgical uses&quot; contains argumentation based on the digestive pathway of collagen in the gut, concluding &quot;there is no reason for orally ingested collagen to affect connective tissue in the body, except through the effect of individual amino acid supplementation&quot;.

For me as a reader this really begs for a comment regarding 8.2 &quot;Type II Collagen and Rheumatoid Arthritis&quot; which refers to a study on orally ingested collagen and reduction in &quot;severe, active rheumatoid arthritis&quot;.

If this reduction is likely to be attributal to anti-inflammatory agents accompanying the orally ingested collagen, this should be clarified.

Over-fifties with joint pains are bombarded with advertising inviting them to spend large amounts of pill money on ingesting collagen products. Wikipedia is a good place to start when looking for advice. The presence of two apparently contradictory points does not reduce confusion for these readers.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/90.224.63.234|90.224.63.234]] ([[User talk:90.224.63.234|talk]]) 07:15, 30 October 2012 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== How does collagen break down, if it all? ==

I am interested to know how long a collagen cell usually survives, I guess by type, and what is the normal ending (apoptosis?). [[User:JoshNarins|JoshNarins]] ([[User talk:JoshNarins|talk]]) 19:36, 9 March 2013 (UTC)

== Name origin ==

I have this giant medical book: ''Mosby's Medical, Nursing, &amp; Allied Health Dictionary Sixth Edition'' and the entry on collagen states that the word collagen is derived from the Greek words ''kolla,'' meaning &quot;glue&quot;, and ''genein,'' meaning &quot;to produce&quot;. The book's most recent copyright is 2002. Not sure where this would go on the article, or even if it should be on the article, but I thought that it might do good knowing. [[Special:Contributions/71.227.24.227|71.227.24.227]] ([[User talk:71.227.24.227|talk]]) 17:55, 25 October 2013 (UTC)

== Raw material sources? ==

I see where the watchers here have ceased answering queries, but will post in the hopes that one will respond anyhow. 

Where is the collagen used in the cosmetics industry (make-up, hair products, skin products) and medical field obtained from? Is it bovine, porcine, or sheepies? I imagine that it's obtained only from animal flesh or can it also be obtained from milk? How do Hebrew and Islamic consumers tell what type of animal source was used? And this seems to a be a case of vegetarians need not apply unless there is a non-animal slaughter analog. How is the raw material processed before it's used? What is the potential for consumer irritation or allergy? Thank you, [[User:Wordreader|Wordreader]] ([[User talk:Wordreader|talk]]) 21:15, 23 March 2015 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>