<article id="23693779" title=Talk:Royal dukedoms in the United Kingdom>
	<talkpage id="23693779" title="Talk:Royal dukedoms in the United Kingdom">
{{WikiProject British Royalty|class=start|importance=high|non-bio=yes}}

== Title ==

I know that Royal Dukes do not use the corresponding number in their title; Prince Richard, The Duke of Gloucester, is actually the second Duke of this particular creation. Once the Dukedom becomes non-royal (with his son) would the numerical identifier be used? Would his son be &quot;His Grace The 3rd Duke of Gloucester&quot;?

[[Special:Contributions/71.42.40.10|71.42.40.10]] ([[User talk:71.42.40.10|talk]]) 20:36, 11 January 2011 (UTC)

Prince Richard is the second Duke of Gloucester, it's just numerical identifiers are not generally used when addressing Peers in general. But if you refer to Debretts or Whitaker's Almanac you will see this particular Royal Duke entered as: 1928, Gloucester (2nd), Richard, Duke of Gloucester etc. And yes his son will be His Grace the 3rd Duke of Gloucester. [[User:Ds1994|Ds1994]] ([[User talk:Ds1994|talk]]) 17:32, 7 June 2011 (UTC)

== Precedence of Princes of the Blood Royal in England ==

For the record it should be noted that all Princes of the Blood Royal, whether they be Royal Dukes or not, take precedence over the two Archbishops in the Church of England and the Lord High Chancellor. They are placed directly after the children of Her Majesty The Queen. [[User:Ds1994|Ds1994]] ([[User talk:Ds1994|talk]]) 17:43, 7 June 2011 (UTC)

== Prince William relevance ==

Is it particularly relevant in mentioning the Queen having created the Prince William as Duke of Cambridge? The last two sentences as written in connection to each other aren't even factually (or grammatically) correct! &quot;Sons of the sovereign are usually granted a dukedom upon marriage. On the occasion of his marriage, 29 April 2011, The Queen created Prince William Duke of Cambridge.&quot; First of all, William is not the Queen's son, but was her eldest grandson titled by courtsey. Second of all, her son Edward was created an earl (at his request), not a duke. Third of all, it should read &quot;... The Queen created Prince William, as Duke of Cambridge.&quot; as someone could think the Queen literally CREATED Prince William, and he was ALREADY Duke of Cambridge. Sloppy grammar. [[Special:Contributions/74.69.126.89|74.69.126.89]] ([[User talk:74.69.126.89|talk]]) 17:23, 18 April 2012 (UTC)
:I don't think it is correct to say that Prince William is titled Duke of Cambridge &quot;by courtesy&quot;.  He hold the ducal title.  Sons of peers who have not yet inherited any title use one of their father's junior titles as a &quot;courtesy title&quot;.  That is not the case with William.[[User:Eregli bob|Eregli bob]] ([[User talk:Eregli bob|talk]]) 09:15, 3 December 2012 (UTC)

== Duke of Lancaster ==

In the [[Duke of Lancaster]] article, it says that the Duke of Lancaster as a title is extinct. It only exists as a STYLE and as the Duchy of Lancaster, which does not technically require a Duke to have, or vis versa (the Dukes of York, Gloucester and Kent do not have duchies as such in York, Gloucestershire or Kent). Also it says the Royal Dukes are entitled to the style of &quot;His Royal Highness.&quot; The Queen holds the style Duke of Lancaster but is NEVER  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/74.69.126.89|74.69.126.89]] ([[User talk:74.69.126.89|talk]]) 17:30, 18 April 2012 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Royal Dukedoms of the house of Windsor? ==

&quot;Dukedoms created for the House of Windsor

In addition to the current Royal Dukedoms, the following dukedoms were created for Princes of the House of Windsor.

Duke of Clarence and Avondale, created for Prince Albert Victor, eldest son of Edward VII, who died unmarried and without issue.&quot;

OK, so Prince Albert Victor died 25 years before the House of Windsor began.[[User:Eregli bob|Eregli bob]] ([[User talk:Eregli bob|talk]]) 09:11, 3 December 2012 (UTC)

== Prince Edward ==

&quot;At the same time as his creation as Earl of Wessex, it was announced that Prince Edward will be created Duke of Edinburgh on the death of both of his parents. The Dukedom of Edinburgh will become a non-royal dukedom with Prince Edward's descendants.&quot;

If Prince Philip passes away before the Queen,   wouldn't Prince Charles( assuming he is still alive), inherit the title Duke of Edinburgh ?   Wouldn't Charles then also have to die before Edward can be made Duke of Edinburgh ?  Or would Charles' elevation to King extinguish the Dukedom of Edinburgh,  therefore making it available for re-issue to Edward ?   I guess that's why both of Edward's parents have to die, before he can get it.[[User:Eregli bob|Eregli bob]] ([[User talk:Eregli bob|talk]]) 09:28, 3 December 2012 (UTC)

:Basically yes. A title merges with the Crown either when the holder inherits the throne or if the monarch subsequently inherits the title. It is then available for recreation during that monarch's lifetime - the last such case I can think of was when George V created his second son Duke of York, a title he himself had had. [[User:Timrollpickering|Timrollpickering]] ([[User talk:Timrollpickering|talk]]) 16:04, 15 January 2013 (UTC)

== precedence ==

William takes precedence over the Duke of York as the eldest son of the Prince of Wales. He is listed above him in the Court Circular and has replaced him as a senior member of the Royal Family. Change it. [[Special:Contributions/74.69.11.229|74.69.11.229]] ([[User talk:74.69.11.229|talk]]) 14:22, 9 February 2013 (UTC)

== Dukes of Here and There ==

Ok. ''mea maxiuma culpa'', I [[WP:BOLD]]ly created individual articles for such double dukedoms as [[Duke of Gloucester and Edinburgh|Gloucester and Edinburgh]], based on the assertion that these were each not two dukedoms but one double-dukedom. When {{User|BlueMoonlet}} dropped in on my talk page to assert that the Dukes of Gloucester and Edinburgh were in fact Dukes of Gloucester and Dukes of Edinburgh, I went back to primary sources (the ''[[London Gazette]]'') to see how the creations were gazetted. What I found doesn't seem conclusive to me, so I ask your opinions: considering the format in which other dual peerage titles created at similar times (linked below) were gazetted, does it seem likely that the royal double-dukes (bolded in the below links) were each given one or two dukedoms:
*&quot;Duke of Ancaſter and Keſteven&quot;: {{London Gazette |issue=5350 |date=26 July 1715 |startpage=5 |accessdate=15 August 2014 }}
*'''&quot;Duke of York and of Albany&quot;''' (first Creation): {{London Gazette |issue=5446 |date=26 June 1716 |startpage=4 |accessdate=15 August 2014 }}
*'''&quot;Duke of York and of Albany&quot;''' (second Creation): {{London Gazette |issue=9987 |date=29 March 1760 |startpage=1 |accessdate=15 August 2014 }}
*&quot;Baron Lovel and Holland&quot;: {{London Gazette |issue=10205 |date=1 May 1762 |startpage=6 |accessdate=15 August 2014 }}
*&quot;Viſcount Dudley, and Ward&quot;: {{London Gazette |issue=10306 |date=19 April 1763 |startpage=2 |accessdate=15 August 2014 }}
*'''&quot;Duke of Glouceſter and of Edinburgh&quot;''': {{London Gazette |issue=10470 |date=13 November 1764 |startpage=1 |accessdate=15 August 2014 }}
*'''Duke of Cumberland and Strathearn''': ''cannot find the gazette''
*'''&quot;Duke of York and of Albany&quot;''' (third Creation): {{London Gazette |issue=12598 |date=23 November 1784 |startpage=2 |accessdate=15 August 2014 }}
*'''&quot;Duke of Clarence and of St. Andrews&quot;''': {{London Gazette |issue=13097 |date=16 May 1789 |startpage=377 |accessdate=15 August 2014 }}
*'''&quot;Duke of Kent, and of Strathern&quot;''','''&quot;Duke of Cumberland, and of Teviotdale&quot;''': {{London Gazette |issue=15126 |date=20 April 1799 |startpage=372 |accessdate=15 August 2014 }}
*&quot;Duke of Buckingham and Chandos&quot;,&quot;Viscount of Newry and Morne&quot;,&quot;Earl of Dunraven and Mount Earl&quot;: {{London Gazette |issue=17781 |date=12 January 1822 |startpage=59 |endpage=60 |accessdate=15 August 2014 }}
*&quot;Baron Oranmore and Browne&quot;: {{London Gazette |issue=19373 |date=12 April 1836 |startpage=665 |accessdate=15 August 2014 }}
*&quot;Baron Brougham and Vaux&quot;: {{London Gazette |issue=22367 |date=16 March 1860 |startpage=1099 |accessdate=15 August 2014 }}
*'''&quot;Duke of Connaught and of Strathearn&quot;''': {{London Gazette |issue=24098 |date=26 May 1874 |startpage=2779 |accessdate=15 August 2014 }}
*&quot;Marquess of Dufferin and Ava&quot;: {{London Gazette |issue=25874 |date=13 November 1888 |startpage=6145 |accessdate=15 August 2014 }}
*'''&quot;Duke of Clarence and of Avondale&quot;''': {{London Gazette |issue=26055 |date=24 May 1890 |startpage=3019 |accessdate=15 August 2014 }}
Thanks '''''[[User talk:Danbarnesdavies|Dan BD]]''''' 14:35, 15 August 2014 (UTC)
:It seems to me that both can happen.  For example, the [[Earl of Oxford and Asquith]] was created with that double-barreled title specifically to avoid a conflict with the dormant [[Earl of Oxford]].  On the other hand, the [[James Erskine, 14th Earl of Mar|Earl of Mar and Kellie]] is separately the [[Earl of Mar]] and the [[Earl of Kellie]].   
:To me, the second &quot;of&quot; in the Gazette for the royal dukedoms (which you've put in bold) makes me think that they are more analogous to the latter.  --[[User:BlueMoonlet|BlueMoonlet]] ([[User talk:BlueMoonlet|t]]/[[Special:Contributions/BlueMoonlet|c]]) 15:25, 15 August 2014 (UTC)
::But not closely (analogous), since no one person was created Earl of Mar and of Kellie – rather an Erskine Earl of Mar inherited the Kellie earldom. I wonder whether there are any other instances of a person being created two peerages of the same grade on the same day. '''''[[User talk:Danbarnesdavies|Dan BD]]''''' 16:56, 15 August 2014 (UTC)
:::My point was just that someone known as &quot;Earl of A and B&quot; might have been created with that as a single title (such as Oxford and Asquith), or they might hold &quot;Earl of A&quot; and &quot;Earl of B&quot; as separate titles (such as Mar and Kellie).  You're right that it could be clearer in this case.  I hope some more experienced royal watchers will weigh in.  --[[User:BlueMoonlet|BlueMoonlet]] ([[User talk:BlueMoonlet|t]]/[[Special:Contributions/BlueMoonlet|c]]) 03:39, 16 August 2014 (UTC)
:I think Dan Barnes-Davies is right and they are one single dukedom, but I don't think that means there needs to be a separate article and separate categories for these double titles. Robert Harley was created [[Earl of Oxford and Earl Mortimer]] on 23 May 1711 (as in the case of Asquith the double title was to distinguish it from the ancient Earldom of Oxford held by the Veres). ''[[The Complete Peerage]]'' (vol. X, p. 264) says that &quot;this extraordinarily worded Earldom [...] is but one title and paid the fees as such. It somewhat resembles in form 'Earl Brooke and Earl of Warwick,' which, however, are two distinct dignities cr. at different dates&quot;. The ''London Gazette'' is a newspaper; the primary source for peerage titles would be the letters patent themselves. [[User:Opera hat|Opera hat]] ([[User talk:Opera hat|talk]]) 17:45, 16 August 2014 (UTC)
: I agree with DBS and others the C19 Royal Dukedoms created in a single patent are most likely a single title. While there are certainly titles with two separate peerages (examples above and below) I think we should default to the assumption of a single title (the normal practice) unless we have good grounds to depart from that belief. The LG is shall we say, not to be relied on, and does contain mistakes so I wouldn't read too much into the semantics of entries. [[User:Garlicplanting|Garlicplanting]] ([[User talk:Garlicplanting|talk]]) 12:19, 30 August 2014 (UTC)

:We should keep them seperate as for example in 1901 (from the time his father became king, until he was named prince of Wales), [[George V]] was known as ''Duke of Cornwall and York''. Those were seperate titles, ''Duke of Cornwall'' and ''Duke of York''. [[User:GoodDay|GoodDay]] ([[User talk:GoodDay|talk]]) 13:59, 23 August 2014 (UTC)
:: In your example those are indisputably two separate titles. The issue is the double creation royal peerages where it is not unambiguously clear [[User:Garlicplanting|Garlicplanting]] ([[User talk:Garlicplanting|talk]]) 11:35, 31 August 2014 (UTC)

I've emailed the College of Arms asking whether they know where ''letters patent'' go &quot;afterwards&quot;. '''''[[User talk:Danbarnesdavies|Dan BD]]''''' 17:13, 6 September 2014 (UTC)
: I always understood they went to the recipient but see if you get a reply.[[User:Garlicplanting|Garlicplanting]] ([[User talk:Garlicplanting|talk]]) 13:06, 9 September 2014 (UTC)
:: The College replied months ago that they don't keep copies of LPs. I'll write to the Royal Archives. '''''[[User talk:Danbarnesdavies|Dan BD]]''''' 14:42, 1 February 2015 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>