<article id="8513812" title=Talk:Mountain High>
	<talkpage id="8513812" title="Talk:Mountain High">
{{Ski}}
==Legend is not fact==
&quot;Local legend has it that Big Pines, California (Which is not too far from today's West Resort) was awarded the 1932 winter olympics but that  due to poor snow conditions the winter games were moved to Lake Placid, New York. However, the [http://www.aafla.org/6oic/OfficialReports/1932/1932w.pdf official olympic history] of the 1932 winter games establishes that the games were awarded to 
Lake Placid on April 10, 1929.&quot;

*Legend should not be included in an encyclopedic article [[User:Gohiking|Gohiking]] 14:40, 19 December 2006 (UTC)
:The Mountain High history page makes this claim.  [[User:Jeremymiles|Jeremymiles]] ([[User talk:Jeremymiles|talk]]) 06:20, 18 January 2011 (UTC)&lt;ref&gt;http://mthigh.com/mthigh/mtn_info/history.html&lt;/ref&gt;
* Gohiking, legends can be in encyclopedic articles, but i agree that the one above is not important.[[User:MTF612|MTF612]]

==Two Inaccuracies Here==

1. The writer claims that due to the west resort's high elevation, it is often the first resort in Southern Califorina to open. Living in Lake Arrowhead for the last 12 years and being an avid skiier, I have never once seen Mt. High open before Snow Summit or Bear Mountain. First of all Both Snow Summit and Bear Mountain (7000-8200 ft. and 7140-8805 ft. respectively) are higher elevevation. Second, Big Bear resorts have an incredibly superior snowmaking system that given cold enough temperatures can sometimes allow the resorts to open even before the first snowfall of the season. Snow Valley also occasionally opens before Mt. High.

2. The writer claims that mountain High has the longest run in SoCal at 1.6 miles. Mt. Baldy Ski Area reportedly has a run of 2.5 miles, although I have never been there to see it. Also, Geronimo to Learning Curve to Easy Street at Bear Mountain is about 2 miles. &lt;small&gt;—The preceding [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|unsigned]] comment was added by [[Special:Contributions/24.205.120.223|24.205.120.223]] ([[User talk:24.205.120.223|talk]]) 02:39, 30 March 2007 (UTC).&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- HagermanBot Auto-Unsigned --&gt;

:Mt. High opened before Bear and Summit ''this'' season. [[User:Jhinman|Jhinman]] 04:03, 30 March 2007 (UTC)

:Mt. High has been the first ski resort to open for 13 consecutive seasons.  Please see http://www.mthigh.com/press/content/pages/opening09.html  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/192.223.163.5|192.223.163.5]] ([[User talk:192.223.163.5|talk]]) 00:39, 9 January 2010 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>