<article id="18668461" title=Talk:Energy law>
	<talkpage id="18668461" title="Talk:Energy law">
{{talk header}}
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Law|class=C|importance=low}}
{{WikiProject Energy|class=C|importance=mid}}
}}

== Assessment of Energy law  ==

Just responding to:

'Please assess Energy law - as to whether it's a B-class yet, and Mid-importance.'

That you left in the Energy/Assessment section.

I personally don't consider the article to have reached a B status yet. Here's my reasoning:
There is some good content for the United States, however this section is much too divided; I would give an overview of some of the different laws in some states, but this shouldn't extend to nine different states. Russia, United Kingdom, Australia and China all have links to other articles relating to 'energy policy'. Since you begin the introduction explaining how energy policy and law differ, why are you referring a reader to energy policy? Better would be to have these links accompany some good text as a matter of interest. Additionally, the B status suggests that 'Readers are not left wanting, although the content may not be complete enough to satisfy a serious student or researcher.' As a reader of some sections I am left wanting. 

The 'See Also' section is enormous. I'm not sure at this stage whether there is enough content to warrant further exploration into these links. 

Citations need to cover every point. Some of your citations are heavily grouped, while in other places they are non-existent. Many of these citation statements could be removed as part of the skimming down mentioned at the start of my assessment, so not a biggie. 

I would say that perhaps it most relates to a 'C' status at the moment, since it says that for articles in this category, 'Considerable editing is needed to close gaps in content and address cleanup issues. 

Hope that helps you. The article is well on its way towards a B, so endeavour! [[User:MasterOfHisOwnDomain|MasterOfHisOwnDomain]] ([[User talk:MasterOfHisOwnDomain|talk]]) 09:51, 16 February 2009 (UTC)

:I fully agree with the assessment by MasterOfHisOwnDomain and the article as it is does not fulfill the 'B' criteria yet. In addition what was said above I would like also mention the structure. Most of country-specific sections (except U.S.) are very short and non-informative in some cases consisting of only 'see also' links (e.g. Australia). I don't say that we need a full coverage for every country (it can't be done here as a main article) but better organizing these sections are needed. 

:Another issue is that the article has several 'citation needed' tags. [[User:Beagel|Beagel]] ([[User talk:Beagel|talk]]) 07:25, 24 July 2010 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>