<article id="22177407" title=User talk:99.237.76.208>
	<talkpage id="22177407" title="User talk:99.237.76.208">


== Welcome to Wikipedia! ==

Hello, {{PAGENAME}}, and '''[[Wikipedia:Welcome, newcomers|welcome]]''' to Wikipedia! 

Thank you for experimenting with our encyclopedia. The test edit you made {{#if:book|to [[:book]] }} worked, and it has been [[Help:Reverting|reverted]] or removed. Please use [[Wikipedia:Sandbox|the sandbox]] for any other tests you may want to do.

Here are a few good links for newcomers:

*'''[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]'''
*'''[[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]]'''
*'''[[Wikipedia:Your first article|Tips on starting your first article]]'''
*'''[[Help:Contents|Help pages]]'''
*'''[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]'''

I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! Please [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|sign your name]] on talk pages using four tildes (~&amp;#126;~~); this will automatically produce your name and the date. If you need help, check out [[Wikipedia:Where to ask a question]], ask me on my talk page, or type &lt;code&gt;{&amp;#123;helpme}}&lt;/code&gt; here on ''your'' talk page and someone will show up shortly to answer your questions. Again, welcome! &lt;!-- Template:Welcometest --&gt; &lt;strong&gt;[[User:Karenjc|&lt;font color=&quot;red&quot;&gt;Ka&lt;/font&gt;]][[User_talk:Karenjc|renjc]]&lt;/strong&gt; 18:13, 28 March 2009 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>