<article id="3794037" title=Talk:The Beast from 20,000 Fathoms>
	<talkpage id="3794037" title="Talk:The Beast from 20,000 Fathoms">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Film |American-task-force=yes |class=Start}}
{{WikiProject Animation |class=Start |importance=Mid |stop-motion=yes |stop-motion-importance=High}}
{{WikiProject Horror |class=Start |importance=High}}
{{WikiProject Science Fiction |class=Start |importance=Mid}}
}}

== &quot;Undinosaurian skull&quot;? ==

Plainly someone has been doing some extra-curricular research on the film's dinosaur, no?  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/69.109.160.225|69.109.160.225]] ([[User talk:69.109.160.225|talk]]) 17:35, 26 January 2011 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Content question ==
What does &quot;coining it with the atomic age&quot; meant? It isn't English, that's for sure. &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—&amp;nbsp;Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:JohnC|JohnC]] ([[User talk:JohnC|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/JohnC|contribs]]) 23:09, 21 October 2011‎ (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt;

== Plot section ==

The plot summary is completely wrong. The WikiZilla entry on B20k is excellent.  Is it unethical to just copy and paste it? &lt;small class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—&amp;nbsp;Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/69.106.225.81|69.106.225.81]] ([[User talk:69.106.225.81|talk]]) 15:36, 16 November 2012‎ (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt;
:Yes, it's a copyright violation to do so. [[User:Beyond My Ken|Beyond My Ken]] ([[User talk:Beyond My Ken|talk]]) 13:15, 25 November 2013 (UTC)

== [[MOS:ACCESS]] ==

Is there some compelling reason to violate the MOS in this article?  If not, the pseudo-headers should be fixed. [[User:NinjaRobotPirate|NinjaRobotPirate]] ([[User talk:NinjaRobotPirate|talk]]) 03:06, 29 June 2015 (UTC)
:The compellling reason is not to overwhelm the TOC with unnecessary hierarchical levels, and that the MOS is wrong - it's '''''semi-colons''''' which make screen-readers choke, whereas bold is just read as bold, just like '''''every other''''' bold word in every other article.  There is no compelling reason to follow MOS if MOS is mistaken, since MOS is '''''not''''' policy, but a '''''guideline''''', and is not '''''mandatory'''''.  If you '''''make''''' it mandatory by insisting that it always be followed, then you've elevated it from a guideline to policy.  If you'd like that to be the case, that's fine, please go start an RfC to make MOS ACCESS a policy, and if it passes, great.  In the meantime, as ArbCom has repeated stated in numerous cases, edit warring to enforce MOS is a very, very bad idea. [[User:Beyond My Ken|BMK]] ([[User talk:Beyond My Ken|talk]]) 03:13, 29 June 2015 (UTC)
:: Nobody said it was mandatory – the guideline banner itself at the top of the page says it will have exceptions.  If there isn't one for this case, I fail to see why it should be ignored.  Just because you don't like it?  I don't think that's a particularly good reason to ignore a guideline.  If it means so much to you that you're going to bold and italicize random words in your replies, I guess I could just drop the matter. [[User:NinjaRobotPirate|NinjaRobotPirate]] ([[User talk:NinjaRobotPirate|talk]]) 03:26, 29 June 2015 (UTC)
:::Did you actually read what I wrote? [[User:Beyond My Ken|BMK]] ([[User talk:Beyond My Ken|talk]]) 03:29, 29 June 2015 (UTC)
:::: Yes, I did.  You know there's {{tl|TOC limit}}, right?  It seems kind of tedious to mention something that addressed in the guideline itself. [[User:NinjaRobotPirate|NinjaRobotPirate]] ([[User talk:NinjaRobotPirate|talk]]) 03:31, 29 June 2015 (UTC)
:::::Doesn;t do the same thing.  With unnecesary hierarchical levels, the &quot;back of the book&quot; sections (see also, references, notes, bibliography, further reading, external links, etc.) take up a inordinately large part of the TOC, at the expense of the actual '''''content''''' of the article -- and they're totally unnecessary.  If someone's going to navigate to find notes and sources, a simple &quot;References&quot; in the TOC is sufficient, there's totally no need for all the rest. We're here to serve our readers, not to blindly follow MOS, come hell or high water. [[User:Beyond My Ken|BMK]] ([[User talk:Beyond My Ken|talk]]) 03:49, 29 June 2015 (UTC)

:Again this issue comes up, despite BMK's comments on an admin's talkpage [[User_talk:Bbb23/Archive_27#Dispute_resolution|not to do this again]]. MOS:ACCESS is pretty clear, and I concure with NRP. '''[[User:Lugnuts|&lt;font color=&quot;002bb8&quot;&gt;Lugnuts&lt;/font&gt;]]''' &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:Lugnuts|Dick Laurent is dead]]&lt;/sup&gt; 08:35, 29 June 2015 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>