<article id="25745613" title=User talk:92.29.103.108>
	<talkpage id="25745613" title="User talk:92.29.103.108">
==Welcome to Wikipedia==
{{#ifeq: {{lc:{{BASEPAGENAME}}}} | {{uc:{{BASEPAGENAME}}}} 
| {{#ifeq:{{ns:0}}||
'''Welcome!'''

Hello, and [[Wikipedia:Introduction|welcome]] to Wikipedia! Thank you for [[Special:Contributions/{{BASEPAGENAME}}|your contributions]]{{#if:|, such as the one you made to [[:{{{art}}}]]|}}. I hope you like the place and decide to stay. Here are some pages you might like to see:

* [[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
* [[Help:Contents|Help pages]]
* [[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
* [[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]] and [[Wikipedia:Article development|How to develop articles]]
* [[Wikipedia:Your first article|How to create your first article]] (using the [[Wikipedia:Article wizard2.0|Article Wizard]] if you wish)
* [[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]]

You are welcome to continue editing articles without [[Special:Userlogin|logging in]], but I highly recommend that you '''&lt;span class=&quot;plainlinks&quot;&gt;[{{fullurl:Special:Userlogin|type=signup}} create an account]&lt;/span&gt;'''. Doing so is free, requires no personal information, and provides several benefits such as the ability to create articles. For a full outline and explanation of the benefits that come with creating an account, please see [[Wikipedia:Why create an account?|this page]]. If you edit without a username, your [[IP address]] ({{ROOTPAGENAME}}) is used to identify you instead.

In any case, I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! Please [[Wikipedia:Signatures|sign your comments]] on talk pages using four tildes (&lt;nowiki&gt;~~~~&lt;/nowiki&gt;); this will automatically produce your IP address (or username if you're logged in) and the date. If you need help, check out [[Wikipedia:Questions]], ask me on [[User talk:Mushroom|my talk page]], or ask your question and then place &lt;code&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;{{&lt;/nowiki&gt;[[:Category:Wikipedians looking for help|helpme]]&lt;nowiki&gt;}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;&lt;/code&gt; before the question on this page. Again, welcome! 
|{{error|&lt;big&gt;'''Substitution required.  Replace &lt;nowiki&gt;{{welcome-anon}}&lt;/nowiki&gt; with &lt;nowiki&gt;{{subst:welcome-anon}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;.'''&lt;/big&gt;}}}}&lt;!-- Template:welcome-anon --&gt;
| '''Welcome!'''

Hello, {{BASEPAGENAME}}, and [[Wikipedia:Introduction|welcome]] to Wikipedia! Thank you for [[Special:Contributions/{{BASEPAGENAME}}|your contributions]]{{#if:|, especially what you did for [[:{{{art}}}]]}}. I hope you like the place and decide to stay. Here are some pages that you might find helpful:
*[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
*[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]] and [[Wikipedia:Article development|How to develop articles]]
*[[Wikipedia:Your first article|How to create your first article]] (using the [[Wikipedia:Article wizard2.0|Article Wizard]] if you wish)
*[[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]]
I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! Please [[Wikipedia:Signatures|sign]] your messages on [[Wikipedia:talk page|discussion page]]s using four [[tilde]]s (&lt;nowiki&gt;~~~~&lt;/nowiki&gt;); this will automatically insert your username and the date. If you need help, check out [[Wikipedia:Questions]], ask me on {{#if:{{#if:Mushroom|Mushroom}}|[[user talk:{{#if:Mushroom|Mushroom}}|my talk page]]|my talk page}}, or ask your question on this page and then place &lt;code&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;{{helpme}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;&lt;/code&gt; before the question. Again, welcome! &lt;!-- Template:Welcome --&gt;
}} 
[[User:Mushroom|Mushroom]] &lt;small&gt;([[User talk:Mushroom|Talk]])&lt;/small&gt; 21:49, 9 January 2010 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>