<article id="2277065" title=Talk:Ed Koch>
	<talkpage id="38403611" title="Talk:Ed Koch/Archive 1">
{{aan}}
== Statements Regarding Anti-Catholicism ==
A couple things about the addition I made regarding Koch's defence of the Catholic Church. First, try as I might, I was unable to find, on the JPost website itself, a copy of the original article, perhaps someone else may have better luck. I do have the text of the article in its entirety, and have posted it, for citation purposes, to my personal webspace. If this inappropriate I do apologise, but for the time being, at least, I felt it the only option. There are numerous other articles, readily available on the internet, which will attest to Koch having written the article and to him having expressed the sentiments I have written about in the addition, so I'm confident the article's veracity is not in question

Secondly, I think this is a very important article to make mention of, as Ed Koch is a well known figure, and a well known left-wing, liberal Democrat, yet has penned an article in defence of an institution which holds to a much more conservative viewpoint. A viewpoint, he freely admits, is, in many ways, opposed to his. This is important for a couple reason. Firstly, the issue of the the Roman Catholic Church in the media, particularly the priest sex abuse scandals, is a prominent one, and I believe it is reasonable, indeed wise, to make mention of Mr. Koch's feelings and beliefs on these matters.

Secondly, I believe it serves to paint a more full picture of Ed Koch, demonstrating him as a man willing to come to the defence of an institution which, in many ways, stands opposed to his beliefs. This, I believe, paints a more full, human picture of the man and his guiding principles and character. (Do not misinterpret that last sentence as an attempt at hagiography)

== [[Wikipedia:WikiProject_Biography/Assessment#Class_parameter|Biography assessment rating]] comment ==
[[Wikipedia:WikiProject Biography/Assessment/Assessment Drive|WikiProject Biography Assessment Drive]]

'''This article is only narrowly B-class''' as it lacks '''citations''' and '''references'''.

The article may be improved by following the [[Wikipedia:WikiProject_Biography#WikiProject_Biography_11_easy_steps_to_producing_at_least_a_B_article|WikiProject Biography 11 easy steps]] to producing at least a B article. -- [[User:Yamara|Yamara]] 23:54, 8 March 2007 (UTC)

[[User:Nureinefrage|Nureinefrage]] ([[User talk:Nureinefrage|talk]]) 03:13, 10 November 2012 (UTC)Mayor Koch is unquestionably a talented, even brilliant, mensch. However, even he can not be &quot;in two places at once.&quot; To wit: the Early Life section asserts that Sgt. Ed Koch served in the US Army in Europe as of 1941 and he was discharged from the Army in 1946. But Early Life also posits that Mr. Koch graduated from CCNY in 1945. So, which is it? As noted, he could not have been in &quot;two places at once,&quot; could he?[[User:Nureinefrage|Nureinefrage]] 
([[User talk:Nureinefrage|talk]]) 03:13, 10 November 2012 (UTC)

==Needs criticism==
There should be a section on criticisms of Koch's mayoralty.  To me, far from being a &quot;liberal,&quot; Koch was a conservative democrat, who managed his victories by finding isolated spokespersons among communities that weren't part of his base.

==Photo==
Any chance we could replace Koch's photo with a smaller one?  Surely such a large, hi-res picture as is currently posted does not fall into the 'fair use' category!  [[User:Grammaticus Repairo|Grammaticus Repairo]] 06:18, 5 September 2006 (UTC)

==Koch a Democrat?!==
This is more about the [[Bloomberg]] Article than anything else, but can anyone name a Democart(''other than himself'') who he has supported or by default, can anyone name a Democart that he has ''not'' slammed on behalf of the GOP?--[[User:NY101|NY101]] 16:29, 23 October 2005 (UTC)

I would agree that Bloomberg is more of a Democrat than this guy.
[[User:64.147.190.218|64.147.190.218]] 08:09, 10 July 2006 (UTC)

He supported Hillary Clinton in 2000 and still does. He has said that he plans to support her for President in 2008.

Koch was/is certainly conservative on many, though certainly not all, issues, but as far as party affiliation, has most often supported the party (if sometimes critically); nonetheless he has an independent mind, and calls it as he sees it.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/71.125.236.139|71.125.236.139]] ([[User talk:71.125.236.139|talk]]) 15:51, 4 April 2010 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

==Koch: a Francophobe==
In 2002, Kock used to punctuate the end of his radio shows in these terms: «Omni Gaula delenda est», which give us in english: «All the Gaul must be destroyed».
(Gaul is the territory of modern-day France, cf. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaul)

==Well known corruption?==
Odd no mention about ''any'' of the scandals during his tenure as mayor, an article about Ed Koch without a section on corruption, is like an article about [[Boss Tweed]] without a political cartoon of Tweed being both fat ''and'' corrupt--[[User:205.188.117.71|205.188.117.71]] 02:29, 31 January 2006 (UTC)

== Connection with Operation Condor? ==

Mr Koch's connection with Operation Condor (in the section ''Congress'') is confusing and presented without explanation. What was Mr Koch's connection to Latin American affairs? &lt;br&gt;
--[[User:Philopedia|Philopedia]] 09:52, 3 August 2006 (UTC)

==Opposing Giuliani==
His opposing Giuliani began in January, 1996, as is indicated in the May 13, 2007 [[New York Post]] story.  The major tipping point was Giuliani's changing the system of selecting judges. [[User:Dogru144|Dogru144]] 02:35, 18 May 2007 (UTC)

:Yet somehow Koch supported and continues to support George W. Bush, despite nearly every criticism he's levelled at Giuliani being equally applicable to Bush. [[Special:Contributions/76.123.216.96|76.123.216.96]] ([[User talk:76.123.216.96|talk]]) 03:05, 27 December 2007 (UTC)

==Article reorganized==
This article's organization had become a mess, with the chronological fractured in several places and information about his mayoralty spread throughout.  I've reassembled it to correct these faults and flow better.   [[User:Wasted Time R|Wasted Time R]] 14:30, 24 June 2007 (UTC)
:Great; the article looks much better now. [[User:Korny O'Near|Korny O&amp;#39;Near]] 13:43, 25 June 2007 (UTC)

== Source to check out: Giuliani biography ==

In a [http://www.villagevoice.com/news/0028,barrett,16371,1.html July 18, 2000 Village Voice article] there is an article subtitled &quot;63 hot newsbreaks in the new Giuliani biography.&quot;  The article is referring &quot;Rudy! An Investigative Biography of Rudy Giuliani&quot; by Wayne Barrett and Adam Fifield.

Here are the Koch related items: 
CHAPTER 9: 

24. Ed Koch's 1987 stroke came in the midst of mounting pressures over a combined press/U.S. attorney probe of a city contract awarded to Richard Nathan, a purported lover of his. (175-1811 Jack McAvoy, a Washington attorney, verifies that Nathan was summoned from California by close Giuliani aides and questioned about Koch's sex life. (178-180)

25. Koch aide Herb Rickman, a witness in the Bess Myerson trial, says that Giuliani's office repeatedly asked him about Koch's sex life. (183-t84i

26. Koch aide Larry Kieves says he was brought in a potential Myerson witness and also questioned about the mayor's sex life. (184) These three new sources confirm Nathan's comments to the Voice in 1993, and are backed up by diary entries in a federal agent's logs and interviews with the agent, another investigator, and several other individuals.

--[[User:Larrybob|Larrybob]] 19:31, 26 June 2007 (UTC)

:I think the Koch article already quotes the appropriate reply to all this: Fuck off.  [[User:Wasted Time R|Wasted Time R]] 19:45, 26 June 2007 (UTC)


==U-u-uhh==

When speaking, Koch repeatedly interjects the sound &quot;u-u-uhh.&quot; This occurs so often that it is difficult for a listener to follow his thought. To correct this problem, radio sound editors record his speech, delete the interjections, and play his edited speech. When criticized for this defect, Koch replied that he is too old to change his speech habits.[[User:Lestrade|Lestrade]] 15:23, 8 July 2007 (UTC)Lestrade

== Jewish ==

I noticed whilst viewing the [[Ilse Koch]] articles, it states that Ed Koch is her son,then links to his page. Is this information sourced? How could a infamous female Concentration Camp Guard who supposedly made lamp shades from skin be jewish?  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/90.203.53.99|90.203.53.99]] ([[User talk:90.203.53.99|talk]]) 10:31, 8 October 2007 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:What you were looking at was just vandalism from earlier in the day. [[User:Korny O'Near|Korny O&amp;#39;Near]] 12:59, 8 October 2007 (UTC)


ahhhh. ok. cheers.  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/90.198.66.98|90.198.66.98]] ([[User talk:90.198.66.98|talk]]) 16:25, 8 October 2007 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== EIK ==

I heard that the term EIK was used in lieu of eat-in-kitchen as subliminal advertising for Koch.  Is that true?  [[User:CoolGuy|CoolGuy]] 22:23, 2 December 2007 (UTC)

:Absolutely, it was a decision made at an [[Illuminati]] meeting in the early 80's. Just don't tell anyone. [[User:Korny O'Near|Korny O&amp;#39;Near]] 00:19, 4 December 2007 (UTC)

== Jewish religion ==
The infobox says &quot;Religion - Jewish&quot;, but do we have a reliable source that says Ed Koch is a practicing religious Jew? Being of Jewish background doesn't necesarily make so. /[[User:Slarre|Slarre]] ([[User talk:Slarre|talk]]) 18:09, 12 March 2008 (UTC)
::There is religious Jewishness and there is genetic Jewishness. He is a genetic Jew.[[User:Lestrade|Lestrade]] ([[User talk:Lestrade|talk]]) 20:07, 12 April 2008 (UTC)Lestrade

== 'Cultural references' are not trivia ==

The cultural references section should not be tagged as trivia. It's not a miscellaneous collection of facts, it's an ordered list of facts that shed light on how Koch has been viewed by the society at large. [[User:Korny O&amp;#39;Near|Korny O&amp;#39;Near]] ([[User talk:Korny O&amp;#39;Near|talk]]) 20:44, 9 September 2008 (UTC)
:Accepted, but some of the references need episode-citiations, and I question the encyclopedic value of (for example) Will &amp; Grace's &quot;Karen&quot; showing Ed Koch her boobs. [[User:HalJor|HalJor]] ([[User talk:HalJor|talk]]) 22:01, 9 September 2008 (UTC)
::So you should take out what you think doesn't belong, and add &quot;cite&quot; tags. [[User:Korny O&amp;#39;Near|Korny O&amp;#39;Near]] ([[User talk:Korny O&amp;#39;Near|talk]]) 22:09, 9 September 2008 (UTC)
:::I've already added &quot;episode&quot; tags, but I'll have to give some thought to what's valuable.  You have made the valid point that &quot;cultural references&quot; are not inherently &quot;trivia&quot; and I'd rather avoid sparking an edit war over such subjective material. [[User:HalJor|HalJor]] ([[User talk:HalJor|talk]]) 22:15, 9 September 2008 (UTC)
::::The formewr Mayor briefly had one of the highest rated radio programs on New York City's 770WABC during the mid '90's.  I don't have the details to include this, but if an informed radio/ABC afficianado has the sources, this should certainly be included in the article.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/71.125.236.139|71.125.236.139]] ([[User talk:71.125.236.139|talk]]) 15:45, 4 April 2010 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== odd, no mention at all of crime ==

Crime is all over the David Dinkins article.

Yet not a mention of crime in this article about Koch, even though it was during his long tenure (1977 - 1989) that violent crime exploded to record levels, and it was during Dinkins's short tenure that the big dropoff began. [[Special:Contributions/69.121.6.97|69.121.6.97]] ([[User talk:69.121.6.97|talk]]) 14:22, 31 July 2009 (UTC)captcrisis

== Mayor's Private Sector Survey 1989 ==

Suggested addition:

NYC ED KOCH MAYOR'S PRIVATE SECTOR SURVEY

In 1988, Mayor Koch asked Frank T. Cary [1920-2006], then the retired CEO of IBM Corporation, to chair a group of executives, managers and professionals from banking, finance and industry to study the operations of city agencies and make recommendations. The team of over 100 people from major companies began in early 1989, working with the consulting firm, Price Waterhouse. The executive director was Paul J. Kofmehl [1929-2007], a retired IBM vice-president.

When Ed Koch lost the primary in 1989, the task force recommendations were passed on the the next mayor, David Dinkins, who faced a deteriorating city, with many demoralized workers. With the election of Rudy Giuliani as mayor in 1993, one of the first action items was the installation of new computerized reporting systems (crime reporting, precinct accountability, etc.)in the Police Department, which had been part of the Private Sector recommendations. That system has been cited as a major reason for the turnaround in the quality-of-life issues and the reduction in crime rates.

REFERENCES:

Cary, Frank T., THE N.Y.C. SERVICE CRISIS: A MANAGEMENT RESPONSE, Mayor's Private Sector Survey, NY, 1989.

Dinkins, David N., NEW YORK CITY'S RESPONSE TO THE MAYOR'S PRIVATE SECTOR SURVEY, The Survey, 1990.

Kofmehl, Paul J. and Edward Sermier, &quot;New York City Private Sector Survey,&quot; PUBLIC PRODUCTIVITY AND MANAGEMENT REVIEW, Vol XV, No. 2, Winter 1991, p. 179.
[[User:GeneBi|GeneBi]] ([[User talk:GeneBi|talk]]) 19:01, 27 August 2012 (UTC)


No,DON'T put it in.  This reinforces the mythology that only Dinkins was responsible for the big crime problem, and only Giuliani fixed it.  Your references cannot possibly support this addition because they are dated 1989 and 1991 (the 2nd year of the Dinkins administration, predating Giuliani by 3 years).  Also, CompStat was at most a minor factor in the reduction in crime.  (See the Wikipedia article on CompStat.)[[Special:Contributions/69.119.169.59|69.119.169.59]] ([[User talk:69.119.169.59|talk]]) 13:15, 25 December 2012 (UTC)captcrisis
	</talkpage>
	<talkpage id="41817514" title="Talk:Ed Koch/Archive 2">
{{aan}}

== Death ==

He died a few hours ago.  This talks about what it says on his tombstone.  How does he have one this quickly?  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/63.140.111.250|63.140.111.250]] ([[User talk:63.140.111.250|talk]]) 22:56, 1 February 2013 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

::One of the sources talks about him buying his grave in a Christian church's graveyard some time ago because he wanted to be buried in Manhattan, and it was the only space left. At the same time, he had his tombstone created (and erected, IIRC). &lt;font color=&quot;red&quot;&gt;—&amp;#91;&lt;/font&gt;[[User:AlanM1|&lt;span style=&quot;font-variant:small-caps;&quot;&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;green&quot;&gt;Alan&lt;/font&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;blue&quot;&gt;M&lt;/font&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;purple&quot;&gt;1&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/span&gt;]]([[User talk:AlanM1|talk]])&lt;font color=&quot;red&quot;&gt;&amp;#93;—&lt;/font&gt; 23:40, 1 February 2013 (UTC)

== Birth ==

&quot;Koch was born in The Bronx, New York City, at NewYork–Presbyterian Hospital.&quot; This sentence is confusing because NYPH didn't exist when Koch was born and NYPH isn't in the Bronx. Take it out? Or correct it? I'd assume he was born at either New York Hospital or Presbyterian Hospital or some other hospital that was merged to create NYPH today. And is there a standard for citing where someone is &quot;born&quot; based on the location of the hospital or mother's residence at time of birth?   &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/163.151.2.10|163.151.2.10]] ([[User talk:163.151.2.10|talk]]) 14:46, 1 February 2013 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

:The common sense and actual US standard is where the delivery occurred. [[Special:Contributions/72.228.190.243|72.228.190.243]] ([[User talk:72.228.190.243|talk]]) 05:25, 2 February 2013 (UTC)

:: Naturally. If his mother just happened to be visiting Timbuktoo and went into premature labour, we'd say he was born in Timbuktoo, because he was.  It would be absurd to say he was born in the Bronx, New York, USA, merely because his mother had her house there. Apply that same general principle to cases where the distance between home and birth is less, and hey presto. --  [[User:JackofOz|&lt;font face=&quot;Papyrus&quot;&gt;Jack of Oz&lt;/font&gt;]] [[User talk:JackofOz#top|&lt;font face=&quot;Papyrus&quot;&gt;&lt;sup&gt;[Talk]&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;/font&gt;]] 06:33, 2 February 2013 (UTC)

== Profile Photo of Ed Koch in Info Box is not the best possible photo ==

The Info Box photo of Ed Koch shows the person in profile. A profile photo hides half of the person's face and is not really a good idea. This photograph should be replace with a full featured photograph.

The photograph of Koch reminds me of something that occurred when I was in grammar school more than 50 years ago. One of the students had a deformed eye, and his yearbook photo was shown in profile. That WAS a legitimate reason for photographing and displaying somebody's face in profile. In the case of Ed Koch, it would be more appropriate for his entire face to appear in the photograph.

[[User:Anthony22|Anthony22]] ([[User talk:Anthony22|talk]]) 14:17, 3 February 2013 (UTC)

:It looks to be the best available from [[commons:Category:Ed_Koch|Wikimedia Commons]]...do you know of a better one? &lt;small&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;padding:2px;border:1px solid #000000&quot;&gt;[[User:Frank|&lt;span style=&quot;color:cyan;background:blue&quot;&gt;&amp;nbsp;Frank&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;]]&amp;nbsp;&amp;#124;&amp;nbsp;[[user_talk:Frank|&lt;span style=&quot;color:blue;background:cyan&quot;&gt;&amp;nbsp;talk&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;]]&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt; 17:19, 3 February 2013 (UTC)

I know of a lot of better ones, but I cannot upload any of them because I am not the author.

[[User:Anthony22|Anthony22]] ([[User talk:Anthony22|talk]]) 19:41, 3 February 2013 (UTC)

== aids politics ==

Can we please leave the as if they were factual criticisms of Koch's AIDS spending out of the lead and position that since he was indeed gay, which we do not know, he should have spent more money on AIDS, which is a value judgment?  It's fine to add attributed criticisms to the body of the article.  It's not acceptible to add them to the lead as if they were fact. [[User:Medeis|μηδείς]] ([[User talk:Medeis|talk]]) 01:30, 5 February 2013 (UTC)

After listening to your post, I have added a line stating, more factually, that many in the gay community criticized him for his policy on AIDs. Hope this is something you can live with. I am open to edits, but I would ask that Koch's term as mayor be open to such a minimal consideration of gay rights in the lead as the lead gives mention to the issue of racial violence that perhaps affected results with regards to Mayor Dinkins. In the latter case, the link between Koch's personal life and that issue is much more tenuous than that of AIDs and gay rights.  cp  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/24.67.116.174|24.67.116.174]] ([[User talk:24.67.116.174|talk]]) 02:02, 5 February 2013 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== suggestion for new opening paragraph as part of reshaping lead ==

hi, to the contributor who wanted to rework the lead, here is my suggestion for a new opening paragraph for the lead. My aim was to provide a context for interpreting Koch's life for readers, and to present them with reasons why his life is still interesting, as a source of much debate. Let me know what you think [[Special:Contributions/24.67.116.174|24.67.116.174]] ([[User talk:24.67.116.174|talk]]) 23:05, 5 February 2013 (UTC)




Edward Irving &quot;Ed&quot; Koch (pron.: /ˈkɒtʃ/; December 12, 1924 – February 1, 2013) was an American politician, who served in the United States House of Representatives for five terms from 1969 to 1977, and most famously as mayor of New York City for three terms from 1978 to 1989, focusing on a return to fiscal solvency which coincided with the economic upturn of that period. Koch also worked as a  lawyer, political commentator, movie critic and reality television arbitrator. His political career speaks volumes to the time during which he was mayor, as the era where the full realization of civil rights for women, African-Americans and ethnic minorities, gays and lesbians were demanded and shaped a new, more inclusive social norm, at the same time as social stratification impacted the city. As mayor he was able to negotiate these changes with his often brash style, with what appears to be, judged over the time of his mayoralty, to be sometimes paradoxical stances and efforts. Ultimately his career as elected official ended in 1989, perhaps because his method of dealing with these various political streams was no longer in tune with a sufficient part of the electorate.[52]

:A lead paragraph is supposed to summarize the whole article, not to present certain points in essay style.  The civil rights issues would have to be a significant portion of the article before they would get such prominence in the lead, and even then not the first paragraph.  As it is the half sentence mention of racial tension is okay because it explains his loss to Dinkins and the half sentence on gay activist opinion of him makes sense because of the longstanding question of his sexuality.  I suggest rather that you gather good (not just partisan) sources discussing specific civil rights issues relevant to him as mayor and begin a new section&gt; [[User:Medeis|μηδείς]] ([[User talk:Medeis|talk]]) 20:30, 9 February 2013 (UTC)



== Koch, gay issues, and the discussion of his closeted life ==

hello, to the person who is moving what I have written to personal life and legacy (I still have to look to see if you have removed legacy from that section). 
May I ask a huge favor of you? As you have taken the step of placing what I have written in another part of the article, rather than simply erase it, I take your amendments as friendly, and thank you for them. However, the mounting evidence, first that of a very colored record on gay rights and public health policies, combined with second, his apparently closeted life, does warrant discussion or mention, in my view, in the first section. So, would you be so kind as to place at least a sentence about this in the opening section?
Thanks very much, I look forward to a response, either here or by inserting a sentence or two on this topic in the opening section.
greetings,
~~cp~~  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/24.67.116.174|24.67.116.174]] ([[User talk:24.67.116.174|talk]]) 01:48, 5 February 2013 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:The sentence you have added is reasonable, although I would probably change it to &quot;some gay new yorkers&quot; because not all gays or gay publications are liberal or supported AIDS spending, etc., e.g., Christopher Street Magazine.  I eventually want to change around that third paragraph because it lumps together minority politics and the general election results, but the essence of what you have said is okay. [[User:Medeis|μηδείς]] ([[User talk:Medeis|talk]]) 02:08, 5 February 2013 (UTC)

I have made the change you suggested, as I am sure that it was not just liberals who were dismayed by his policies on gay issues. Your desire to change around that third paragraph makes sense, and I would egg you on to actually change the whole lead. I think Ed Koch is a fascinating, and important figure, not just because he was mayor of New York, nor because of the city's movement to financial health during his time as mayor. As we know from the Clinton administration era, part of it was the Clinton admin's actions, but a large part (larger part?) was the economic situation in general that lead to a better fiscal balance for the US government. Likewise for Koch and New York. 

So what I find interesting is how a combination of fiscal restraint and social projects/plans, in the nexus of the emergence of &quot;minority politics&quot; leads him to be both a popular figure, and one with many paradoxes. Maybe I am not expressing it well, but he seems important to me because he is a larger-than-life reflection of the dichotomies of that period. Whether he was gay or not, and it does indeed seem that he was closeted, is irrelevant in a sense (but not in the sense that he felt and acted as if being known to be gay would ruin his political career), as the tortured nature of his gay politics (i.e. as a politician addressing gay rights issues rather than as the politics of a gay man (since he didn't declare himself to be gay, he didn't can't have that sort of gay politics) is expressive of a time when openness about sexuality was becoming an issue. (And please don't forget, that openness has also played a role in allowing victims of sexual abuse to finally come forward.)  Likewise the issues surrounding social policy, and the issues of race relations, they are all brewing heavily while he is mayor, and his response is very much one of the times, some advances, some retreats, much negotiating his career in the political tides.  cp  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/24.67.116.174|24.67.116.174]] ([[User talk:24.67.116.174|talk]]) 02:29, 5 February 2013 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

:That section is one long hotch-potch of insinuations, factoids and gossip. There's nothing solid whatsoever in there on whether Koch was gay - just allegations coming either from people who were against him for other political reasons (Cuomo's campaign people) or gay activists who have an axe to grind. And the documentary that tried to out a number of politicians and accuse them of hypocrisy is not a reliable or noteworthy source for anything. 
:It's completely immaterial to this argument whether one approves of gay rights, or personally likes gay sexual practices, or not. Personally I approve of LGBT's having the same civil rights as everyone else, but that doesn't excuse pseudo-journalism or unfounded gossip to push some particular activists' sense of self-importance, neither in a newspaper, nor as getting cited in an encyclopaedia and sold as verifiable truth or whatever. The whole section should be deleted or severely cut back. [[Special:Contributions/83.254.151.33|83.254.151.33]] ([[User talk:83.254.151.33|talk]]) 14:49, 22 May 2013 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
	<talkpage id="2277065" title="Talk:Ed Koch">
{{Talk header|search=yes}}
{{ITN talk|February 1,|2013}}
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
  {{WikiProject Biography|living=no |class=C |politician-priority=Mid |politician-work-group=yes |listas=Koch, Ed }}
  {{WikiProject Journalism|class=C |importance=Low }}
  {{WikiProject New York City|class=C |importance=Low }}
  {{WikiProject U.S. Congress|class=C |importance=Mid |subject=person}}
  {{WikiProject LGBT studies|class=C }}
  {{WikiProject Aids|class=C |importance=Mid }}
}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:Koch, Ed}}
{{User:MiszaBot/config
|archiveheader = {{aan}}
|maxarchivesize = 100K
|counter = 2
|algo = old(365d)
|archive = Talk:Ed Koch/Archive %(counter)d
}}
{{Auto archiving notice|bot=MiszaBot I |age= |units= 1 year}}

&lt;!-- WP:VEN --&gt;

==Rent-controlled abuser==
I think more should be mentioned about Ed Koch abusing the rent-control housing system. He's a typical snake in that area but when you combine it to him being a politician who did little for the working classes he is real first-class scum.[[Special:Contributions/101.51.232.159|101.51.232.159]] ([[User talk:101.51.232.159|talk]]) 00:30, 17 August 2013 (UTC)

== Corruption scandal in year 1986 ==

This is missing here.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/12.166.104.221|12.166.104.221]] ([[User talk:12.166.104.221|talk]]) 15:06, 14 September 2013 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:Do you mean the one that is covered in the '1985 election and third term' section of the article? --[[User:Onorem|Onorem]] ([[User talk:Onorem|talk]]) 15:50, 14 September 2013 (UTC)

== Odd, nothing at all about crime ==

Crime is all over the Dinkins article.

Yet there is not a mention of crime in the Koch article, even though it was during Koch's long tenure that crime gradually rose, and it was during Dinkins's short tenure that the big drop-off began.

It's also odd that someone deleted the comment you are reading now and I had to manually re-insert it.[[Special:Contributions/69.120.202.82|69.120.202.82]] ([[User talk:69.120.202.82|talk]]) 13:22, 7 November 2013 (UTC)captcrisis

== Ed Koch The Bronx ==

Why is absent situation in the Bronx during Ed Koch mayoral?

== What happened to the Section &quot;Tombstone&quot; and the photograph of Ed Koch's gravesite ==

I'm just wondering why the section &quot;Tombstone&quot; and the photograph of Ed Koch's burial site disappeared from the article. I have seen many photographs vanish from Wikipedia articles. I don't understand the logic to this kind of editing. As a matter of fact, there's no point to uploading photos to articles and creating new text if the edits are going to be reverted.

[[User:Anthony22|Anthony22]] ([[User talk:Anthony22|talk]]) 18:28, 12 December 2014 (UTC)

:{{ping|Anthony22}} It looks like it was removed with [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ed_Koch&amp;diff=634886075&amp;oldid=634885226 this edit] by [[User:Rjensen|Rjensen]]; perhaps the page does not need the long explanation of the inscription, but something should be mentioned about the error on his tombstone. [[User:331dot|331dot]] ([[User talk:331dot|talk]]) 14:12, 17 March 2015 (UTC)

{{ping|Rjensen}} Re ''&quot;Koch was dead when the error was made --it happens to the best of people and should not be enshrined here as memorable&quot;''; I'm not sure how that is relevant; an error on a notable/historical figure's tombstone is notable. If they misspelled Abraham Lincoln's name on the Lincoln Memorial, it would be mentioned on its page. Not mentioning this error is a historical omission. I get not mentioning the whole explanation of his epitaph(which seems self-evident) and I don't seek to restore that. [[User:331dot|331dot]] ([[User talk:331dot|talk]]) 14:16, 6 July 2015 (UTC)
:::The Lincoln memorial was done over a period of years long after Lincoln was dead with many people watching closely. Koch's tombstone was done in a few days by one unnamed artisan who made a trivial typo error that was quickly fixed. [[User:Rjensen|Rjensen]] ([[User talk:Rjensen|talk]]) 14:21, 6 July 2015 (UTC)
::::I respect your views but I disagree that this is &quot;trivial&quot;; the error was discussed in RS and not including it here does a disservice to future readers who will be denied the opportunity to learn about this aspect of his death. [[User:331dot|331dot]] ([[User talk:331dot|talk]]) 14:32, 6 July 2015 (UTC)
:::::there are 9999 other facts about Koch that we skip over.  This one simply ridicules him. [[User:Rjensen|Rjensen]] ([[User talk:Rjensen|talk]]) 14:35, 6 July 2015 (UTC)
::::::Who is ridiculing anyone?  (especially Koch)  It simply states the documented facts. Koch would probably find it amusing, not as ridicule. If there are 9999 facts that are cited and noteworthy I don't see why they shouldn't be included if they provide notable insight. [[User:331dot|331dot]] ([[User talk:331dot|talk]]) 14:38, 6 July 2015 (UTC)
{{od}}I'm sympathetic to leaving out the mistake on the date, as it was corrected. But shouldn't we mention the words of [[Daniel Pearl]] that he put on the monument? [http://www.jewishpress.com/news/breaking-news/ed-koch-fiercely-jewish-but-buried-in-a-churchyard/2013/02/05/] By the way, that article calls it an Episcopalian cemetery while we say it is non-denominational. We should check this, too. [[User:Jason from nyc|Jason from nyc]] ([[User talk:Jason from nyc|talk]]) 21:26, 6 July 2015 (UTC)
:Update: I see conflicting reports as to whether the cemetery is non-denominational or Episcopal. It is still controlled by Trinity Church on Wall Street. However, this Episcopal journal [http://episcopaldigitalnetwork.com/ens/2013/02/04/new-york-mayor-ed-koch-laid-to-rest-in-trinity-plot/] calls it non-denominational and I believe that settles it.
:The article also mentions the last words of [[Daniel Pearl]] on the tombstone: &quot;My father is Jewish. My mother is Jewish. I am Jewish.&quot; Koch said &quot;that those words are 'as important as the most holy of all statements in Jewish ritual,' adding that they ought to be said by Jews 'every Saturday night.'&quot; I believe that those words are more important than his not wanting to be buried in New Jersey. [[User:Jason from nyc|Jason from nyc]] ([[User talk:Jason from nyc|talk]]) 15:21, 7 July 2015 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>