<article id="22863088" title=User talk:207.245.188.114>
	<talkpage id="22863088" title="User talk:207.245.188.114">
== Request for editor assistance answered ==

Hello! I'm a volunteer at [[WP:EAR]], the board to request editor assistance, where you filed a request about [[James Vann]] today. I apologize if I'm incorrect, but I believe you had filed a request on the same subject last week, which was answered.

In this case, the same advice applies; you need to try and discuss things directly with the other editor, preferably at the discussion page for that particular article. Please go to [[Talk:James Vann]], where you will be able to voice your concerns. Once some discussion is underway, myself and other editor assistants will be more inclined to step in and help guide things.

Please let me know if you need further assistance at my user talk page ([[User talk:Mendaliv]]) or reply to your request ([[WP:EAR#Chief James Vann (again)]]).

Also, due to the plurality of IP addresses you're using, would you please consider registering an account? It takes a minute, it's free, and there are a lot of very useful features that come with it, and it makes things easier for other editors hoping to contact you. &amp;mdash;/[[User:Mendaliv|&lt;b&gt;M&lt;/b&gt;&lt;small&gt;endaliv&lt;/small&gt;]]/&lt;sup&gt;&lt;small&gt;[[User talk:Mendaliv|2¢]]&lt;/small&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;/&lt;sub&gt;&lt;small&gt;[[Special:Contributions/Mendaliv|Δ's]]&lt;/small&gt;&lt;/sub&gt;/ 17:48, 19 May 2009 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>