<article id="2355532" title=Talk:Écriture féminine>
	<talkpage id="2355532" title="Talk:Écriture féminine">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Gender Studies|class=start}}
{{WikiProject Feminism|class=start|importance=mid}}
{{WikiProject Literature|class=start|importance=|listas=Ecriture Feminine}}
{{WikiProject Philosophy|class=start|social=yes|continental=yes}}
}}

==Untitled==
''typically 'French'''

Brilliant. This article needs massive work. I'll see if I can get my French professor involved... Still, adding the globalise template.[[Special:Contributions/163.1.48.136|163.1.48.136]] ([[User talk:163.1.48.136|talk]]) 19:13, 20 May 2011 (UTC)

''the anti-linear, cyclical writing so often frowned upon by patriarchal society''

Urgh. Where to begin (I think I'll have to find a copy of her essay first, read it entirely, then revise). [[User_talk:Snapdragonfly|Snapdragonfly]]

Indeed. I tried to clean up some of it a few seconds ago, but it needs a lot more attention than revising a few words.

----
''At the present time, écriture féminine is a major discipline in schools and universities of English-speaking countries.''

Is this a joke? -- LKS 7/7/06
it's called women's studies.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/98.244.107.164|98.244.107.164]] ([[User talk:98.244.107.164|talk]]) 05:22, 18 October 2011 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Clean up ==

I added a couple of appropriate quotations and references, did a little editing, and removed the &quot;clean up&quot; template. This is still very much a stub, but it is, I hope, a little tighter. [[User:Scribblingwoman|scribblingwoman]] 20:02, 28 February 2007 (UTC)
:Article is poorly written and rambling. It needs a thorough clean-up. [[User:Xxanthippe|Xxanthippe]] ([[User talk:Xxanthippe|talk]]) 00:01, 12 April 2010 (UTC).

== &quot;translation&quot; ==

In what way does it &quot;literally&quot; mean &quot;gendered women's writing&quot;?  It doesn't.  It means literally &quot;female writing&quot;, or &quot;feminine writing&quot;.  [[User:Widsith|Widsith]] 13:07, 29 August 2007 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>