<article id="7953532" title=User talk:84.75.247.156>
	<talkpage id="7953532" title="User talk:84.75.247.156">
It might not have been your intention, but your recent edit removed content from {{{{{subst|}}}#if:List of dictators|[[:List of dictators]]|an article}}. Please be careful not to remove content from Wikipedia without a valid reason, which you should specify in the [[Help:Edit summary|edit summary]] or on the article's [[Help:Talk page|talk page]]. Take a look at our [[Wikipedia:Welcome|welcome page]] to learn more about contributing to this encyclopedia. Thank you. &lt;!-- Template:Test1a (First level warning) --&gt; A link to the edit I have reverted can be found here: [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=List_of_dictators&amp;diff=next&amp;oldid=87861442 link]. If you believe this edit should not have been reverted, please contact me. [[User:TheRanger|TheRanger]] 17:35, 15 November 2006 (UTC)

==Your edit to [[:Causes of World War II]]==
Your recent edit to [[:Causes of World War II]] ([http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Causes_of_World_War_II&amp;diff=88020554&amp;oldid=87991218 diff]) was reverted by an '''automated bot''' that attempts to recognize and repair [[Wikipedia:vandalism|vandalism]] to Wikipedia articles. If the bot reverted a legitimate edit, please accept my humble creator's apologies – if you bring it to the attention of the bot's owner, we may be able to improve its behavior. '''[[User:AntiVandalBot/FAQ|Click here]]''' for '''frequently asked questions''' about the bot and this warning. // [[User:AntiVandalBot|AntiVandalBot]] 17:44, 15 November 2006 (UTC)
:But I must say, that was one of the most courteous acts of vandalism I've seen. Please don't make a habit of it. [[User:Scoo|Scoo]] 17:46, 15 November 2006 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>