<article id="18618834" title=User talk:Pnårp>
	<talkpage id="18618834" title="User talk:Pnårp">
==Welcome to Wikipedia==
{{#ifeq: {{lc:{{BASEPAGENAME}}}} | {{uc:{{BASEPAGENAME}}}} 
| '''Welcome'''

Hello, and [[Wikipedia:Introduction|welcome]] to Wikipedia! Thank you for [[Special:Contributions/{{BASEPAGENAME}}|your contributions]]{{#if:|, such as the one you made in [[:{{{art}}}]]|}}. I hope you like the place and decide to stay. Here are some pages you might like to see:

* [[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
* [[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]]
* [[Help:Contents|Help pages]]
* [[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
* [[Wikipedia:How to write a great article|How to write a great article]]
* [[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]]

You are welcome to continue editing articles without [[Special:Userlogin|logging in]], but you may wish to '''&lt;span class=&quot;plainlinks&quot;&gt;[{{fullurl:Special:Userlogin|type=signup}} create an account]&lt;/span&gt;'''. Doing so is free, requires no personal information, and provides several [[Wikipedia:Why create an account?|benefits]]. If you edit without a username, your [[IP address]] ({{BASEPAGENAME}}) is used to identify you instead.

In any case, I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! Please [[Wikipedia:Signatures|sign your comments]] on talk pages using four tildes (&lt;nowiki&gt;~~~~&lt;/nowiki&gt;); this will automatically produce your IP address (or username if you're logged in) and the date. If you need help, check out [[Wikipedia:Questions]], ask me on {{#if:{{#if:|{{{1}}}}}|[[user talk:{{#if:|{{{1}}}}}|my talk page]]|my talk page}}, or ask your question and then place &lt;code&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;{{&lt;/nowiki&gt;[[:Category:Wikipedians looking for help|helpme]]&lt;nowiki&gt;}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;&lt;/code&gt; before the question on this page. Again, welcome! &lt;!-- Template:welcome-anon --&gt;
| '''Welcome!'''

Hello, {{BASEPAGENAME}}, and [[Wikipedia:Introduction|welcome]] to Wikipedia! Thank you for [[Special:Contributions/{{BASEPAGENAME}}|your contributions]]{{#if:|, especially what you did for [[:{{{art}}}]]}}. I hope you like the place and decide to stay. Here are some pages that you might find helpful:
*[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
*[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]]
*[[Wikipedia:Article development|How to write a great article]]
*[[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]]
I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! Please [[Wikipedia:Signatures|sign]] your messages on [[Wikipedia:talk page|discussion page]]s using four [[tilde]]s (&lt;nowiki&gt;~~~~&lt;/nowiki&gt;); this will automatically insert your username and the date. If you need help, check out [[Wikipedia:Questions]], ask me on {{#if:{{#if:|{{{1}}}}}|[[user talk:{{#if:|{{{1}}}}}|my talk page]]|my talk page}}, or ask your question on this page and then place &lt;code&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;{{helpme}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;&lt;/code&gt; before the question. Again, welcome! &lt;!-- Template:Welcome --&gt;
}} - and Pnårp Pnårp! - [[User:Brilliantine|Brilliantine]] ([[User talk:Brilliantine|talk]]) 15:56, 28 July 2008 (UTC)

==Kuro5hin Update==

Hi Pnarp. Do you have any published source material that backs your additions to Kuro5hin? Since the changes cast the site in a negative light, we would need to have some way of verifying a claim such as this. I'll revert the changes until we do. Feel free to take a look at [[WP:V]].[[User:Niluop|Niluop]] ([[User talk:Niluop|talk]]) 01:12, 12 April 2011 (UTC)

: Articles on the site itself lamenting its downfall:
:: http://www.kuro5hin.org/story/2011/4/7/132849/9874
:: http://www.kuro5hin.org/story/2011/3/10/82746/4323
:: http://www.kuro5hin.org/story/2009/5/25/105336/584
:: http://www.kuro5hin.org/story/2011/3/31/11030/7001
:: http://www.kuro5hin.org/tag/K5%20is%20dead
:: http://www.kuro5hin.org/tag/kuro5hin%20is%20dead
: [[User:Pnårp|Pnårp]] ([[User talk:Pnårp#top|talk]]) 03:33, 12 April 2011 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>