<article id="5921245" title=Talk:Hermann Witsius>
	<talkpage id="5921245" title="Talk:Hermann Witsius">
{{WikiProject Biography
|living=no
|class= Stub
|listas=Witsius, Hermann
|s&amp;a-work-group=yes
}}
{{WikiProject Calvinism|class=stub|importance=}}

== Broken external links ==

Both of the external links at the bottom are broken.

== POV: orthodoxy ==

The article currently reads:

&quot;While in his theology Witsius aimed at a reconciliation between orthodoxy and Covenant Theology (also known as federalism)...&quot;

As an adherent of Covenant Theology I believe CT is orthodoxy. I don't know anything about Witsius, so I don't know what to replace the word &quot;orthodoxy&quot; with. --[[User:S Roper|S Roper]] 00:18, 24 July 2006 (UTC)

== biblical theologian ==

As far as I know, [[Biblical Theology]] is something that is late 19th / early 20th century. Hence Witsius could never have been a Biblical Theologian. I propose to at least remove the link. Possibly to change

... he was first of all a Biblical theologian, his principal field being systematic theology.

Into

... he was first of all a Scriptural theologian, his principal field being systematic theology.

If no-one disagrees, I will change in two weeks time if I don't forget it.

Also I changed Leeuwaarden into [[Leeuwarden]] and Goesen into [[Goes]] and Wormeren in to Wormer.

- OJB  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/86.153.110.221|86.153.110.221]] ([[User talk:86.153.110.221|talk]]) 23:17, 26 September 2008 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>