<article id="37416070" title=Talk:Big Brother 9 (U.S.)/Archive 5>
	<talkpage id="37416070" title="Talk:Big Brother 9 (U.S.)/Archive 5">
{{talkarchive}}

== Sharon's Cell in the Voting History ==

Looking kind of bloated... any way we could ameliorate this problem? [[User:T|'''T''']] &lt;small&gt;[[User_talk:T|(Formerly Known as FireSpike)]]&lt;/small&gt; 19:50, 22 April 2008 (UTC)
:Nevermind, I fooled around with it in the sandbox, as soon as we put &quot;Nominated&quot; in that column, it'll stretch itself out. [[User:T|'''T''']] &lt;small&gt;[[User_talk:T|(Formerly Known as FireSpike)]]&lt;/small&gt; 20:03, 22 April 2008 (UTC)

== House Calls ==

I don't watch the show, but I had heard that Evel Dick was a Co-Host of House Calls with Gretchen Massey? If he is, I think that the template at the bottom of the article should be updated accordingly. - '''zachinthebox''' &lt;sub&gt;([[User talk:Zackinthebox|Talk]])&lt;/sub&gt; 21:31, 24 April 2008 (UTC)

:He one of four regular co-hosts this season. Danielle hosts Mondays, Kaysar - Tuesdays, Evel Dick - Wednesdays/Thursdays, Bunky - Fridays. Since her co-host change each season we don't include them. If we include ED we have to include everyone else I mentioned. Bunky &amp; Kaysar are the only two co-hosts to host for two seasons. '''[[User:Alucard 16|&lt;font color=&quot;#ED9121&quot;&gt;♪♫Al&lt;/font&gt;]][[User talk:Alucard 16|&lt;font color=&quot;#008000&quot;&gt;ucard&lt;/font&gt;]] [[Special:Contributions/Alucard 16|&lt;font color=&quot;#0000FF&quot;&gt;16♫♪&lt;/font&gt;]]''' 22:15, 24 April 2008 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>