<article id="356636" title=Talk:Matchmaking>
	<talkpage id="356636" title="Talk:Matchmaking">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Family and relationships|class=start|importance=mid}}
{{WikiProject Sociology|class=start|importance=mid}}
{{WikiProject Anthropology|class=start|importance=mid}}
{{WikiProject Sexuality|class=start|importance=mid}}
{{WikiProject Business|class=start|importance=low}}
}}


==Untitled==
''Since the emergence of the mythology of romantic love in the Christian world in medieval times, the pursuit of happiness via such romantic love has often been viewed as something akin to a human right.''

I'm not so sure. Certainly the '''official''' line is that romantic love is a recent development, but the official line on premarital [[chastity|unchastity]] is the same, and pregnant-at-the-altar statistics do not bear that out (and I believe without evidence that one of the longest ongoing projects in medical science was the search for an oral contraceptive). It's possible that, just as (as mentioned in the article) matchmakers frequently did little more than rubber-stamp decisions the parents had already made, they and parents often did little more than sign off on the prospective spouses' own choice (i.e., of each other). Anyway, if romantic love was non-existant or unimportant until the [[13th century]] CE, how did [[Hero and Leander|Leander]] drown? Why weren't [[Pyramus and Thisbe]] home in bed like everyone else who didn't want to be [[Roy Horn|eaten]]?

And after all, how frequent is it that a society has more than two of:
*arranged first marriages,
*''de facto'' major obstacles to or prohibition of divorce, and
*''de facto'' monogamy and disapproval of adultery?
--[[User:Calieber|Calieber]] 14:12, Nov 4, 2003 (UTC)

PS: It occurs to me, thinking about it, that the answer to the above question may differ according to whether we're talking about men, women, or everyone. --[[User:Calieber|Calieber]] 14:46, Nov 4, 2003 (UTC)
----
''For anyone who's interested I have a matchmaking portal: Miss Right http://kevsterooni.tripod.com''
:This appears to be an advertisement.  As such, I've pulled it from the page. [[User:Rossami|Rossami]] 22:20, 10 Feb 2004 (UTC)

== Old women. Alcahuetes and celestinas ==

Up until reading this article, i thought that the role of matchmaking was mainly for older women (''casamenteras''), but the roles mentioned (priest, astrologer, rabbi) are males.
In which societies are matchmakers female?

Is there an English word for a matchmaker that doesn't work for marriage but for sex (''alcahuete'' in Spanish).
Is [[La Celestina]] a matchmaker?

== 仲人をされる方へ ==

披露宴の仲人（媒酌人）の挨拶で、新郎･新婦の名前に言及する際「新郎・○○君」「新婦・○○さん」と言う場合が多いようですが、「新郎・○○さん」「新婦・○○さん」と、両方さん付けの方が良いと私は思います。婚姻者は夫が年上で妻が年下である場合が多いです。「さん」は年長者にも使えるが「君」は同輩か目下の人にしか使えないため、矛盾を感じます。女性から相手の男性をよぶときはさん付けが多いので、それも踏まえて。

私の弟がアルバイトをしているホテルの業務日報に、「新郎　○○君、新婦　○○嬢　控室」とかかれていた（○○に入る名前は手書き、ほかは印刷）のを見ました。これを見て、新郎を君付けで呼ぶ場合、新婦のほうは「さん」に代わって「嬢」という敬称を使ったほうがいいと思いました。--[[User:HANMURA Ken|HANMURA Ken]] ([[User talk:HANMURA Ken|talk]]) 09:59, 26 November 2007 (UTC)

== Other matchmaking ==

We should probably add here some reference to other categories of matchamking, such as job search (and matching [[competence (human resources)]]). --[[User:Nabeth|Nabeth]] ([[User talk:Nabeth|talk]]) 09:05, 7 July 2009 (UTC)

== Restructuring of matchmaking ==

I have restructured matchmaking. This article is however about human matchmaking only, and maybe some other work should be done to move some of the content to another page (I am not convinced if it is [[Dating system]]). The theory section for instance appears partially relevant here. --[[User:Nabeth|Nabeth]] ([[User talk:Nabeth|talk]]) 15:51, 7 July 2009 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>