<article id="24391936" title=Talk:Pierre Darcourt>
	<talkpage id="24391936" title="Talk:Pierre Darcourt">
{{Old AfD multi| date = 19 September 2009 (UTC) | result = '''keep''' | page = Pierre Darcourt }}

{{WikiProject Biography
|living=no
|class=Stub
|listas=Darcourt, Pierre
|auto=yes
}}
{{WikiProject Belgium|class=stub|importance= }}
{{Old prod full}}

==Untitled==
Sorry, but Pierre Darcourt is BELGIAN. Whoever assumed he was French due to the French name doesn't realize that about half of Belgians have French last names. This case was validated by Dr. Michel Poulain.[[User:Ryoung122|Ryoung122]] 08:28, 7 August 2007 (UTC)

:Well there was a French journalist, born in Saigon, named Pierre Darcourt.[http://news.google.com/archivesearch?ned=us&amp;hl=en&amp;q=%22pierre+darcourt&amp;cf=all]--[[User:T. Anthony|T. Anthony]] ([[User talk:T. Anthony|talk]]) 13:08, 11 September 2009 (UTC)


Autochthony writes.
I suggest - retain this article; this man was the oldest human ever, for a good number of years (based on present knowledge, which is fallible and incomplete).  I propose retaining this article, at least until his age is proven incorrect - and exaggerated; or until there is proof of an earlier person older than he.
As the 'oldest ever' he will be one of a very small number - possibly fewer than a dozen - Plante, Darcourt, Peters (or D'Evergroote and Boomgard),  Filkins, Graham, Izumi - or Williams (and White), and Calment.  Eleven in all, some not totally convincingly verified - but Darcourt was!
Keep this article.
Autochthony wrote 2030z 2009-09-13 [[Special:Contributions/86.145.170.85|86.145.170.85]] ([[User talk:86.145.170.85|talk]]) 20:40, 13 September 2009 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>