<article id="662231" title=Talk:Monk (Doctor Who)>
	<talkpage id="662231" title="Talk:Monk (Doctor Who)">
{{WikiProject Doctor Who|class=start|importance=mid}}
{{WikiProject Fictional characters|class=Start}}

Perhaps I should explain ''why'' the Monk's appearance in the thirtieth anniversary special is particularly noteworthy, but it's a spoiler and in any case I don't suppose anybody here cares much. So I probably won't. --[[User:Paul A|Paul A]] 03:20, 18 May 2004 (UTC)

Wikipedia contains spoilers, so please do go right ahead and mention it. I wasn't aware the Monk made any appearances after his originals, so I for one am quite curious about it. Just make sure to put this line:

&lt;nowiki&gt;{{msg:spoiler}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;

before the paragraph where you do, to give readers the option of not reading it. [[User:Bryan Derksen|Bryan]] 04:59, 18 May 2004 (UTC)

==Moving page==

I moved the page since the Monk's the only one of the titled Time Lords without a &quot;The&quot; prefixing his title as the article name. It's also easier to just add the &quot;the&quot; instead of removing it from everyone else. --[[User:Khaosworks|khaosworks]] 08:02, May 6, 2005 (UTC)

== The Master ==

Wasn't the theory about the Monk being the Master first made popular in a manual for a DW RPG in the 80s?  Does anyone know anything about this? [[User:P Ingerson|&lt;nowiki&gt;&lt;/nowiki&gt;]] &amp;mdash; [[User:P Ingerson|P Ingerson]] [[User talk:P Ingerson|(talk)]] 21:43, 21 Jun 2005 (UTC)
:Sounds like the nonsense that the FASA RPG was spouting (like the origins of the [[Sontaran]]s), but I don't have any reference materials on hand. Let me do a little Googling and see what I can come up with. --[[User:Khaosworks|khaosworks]] 21:59, Jun 21, 2005 (UTC)

==Page move?==
The discussion really should be here instead of at Page moves. That being said, the reason for the definitive article in front of Meddling Monk is a combination of historical useage and inertia. It can be argued that this is his full title, not merely &quot;Meddling Monk&quot;, but at the same time, there's the consistency issue, as we have entries of &quot;[[Valeyard]]&quot;, not &quot;The Valeyard&quot; and &quot;[[Rani (Doctor Who)]]&quot;, not &quot;The Rani&quot; and more especially &quot;[[The Doctor (Doctor Who)]]&quot;, so it's starting to look like a bit of a hodge podge. There's also &quot;[[The Inquisitor]]&quot; and &quot;[[The Other (Doctor Who)]]&quot;. I'm still considering what's the better way to go about this, but this will have a knock-on effect on the titles of those articles as well. --[[User:Khaosworks|khaosworks]] ([[User talk:Khaosworks|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Khaosworks|contribs]]) 22:37, August 14, 2005 (UTC)
:I'm of the opinion that definitive articles are not to be placed at the beginning of character article (or any article, for that matter), unless it's abundantly clear that it is part of their name. I.e. a sentence referring to them would be &quot;Hello, The Cheat.&quot; If characters like [[Joker (comics)]] or Universities can't have &quot;the&quot; in the titles, I'm not all that sympathetic to Meddling Monk and the other articles losing &quot;the&quot; from their titles. They shouldn't recieve different treatment just because they all happen to be from Doctor Who. [[User:Apostrophe|Apostrophe]] 15:48, 15 August 2005 (UTC)
::Do you believe in it strongly enough to fix all the redirects? [[The Doctor (Doctor Who)]] has about 500. [[User:Tim!|Tim!]] ([[User talk:Tim!|talk]]) 18:36, 15 August 2005 (UTC)
:::I only see two. Not all that hard of a task. [[User:Apostrophe|Apostrophe]] 20:11, 15 August 2005 (UTC)
::::goto the article and click on &quot;what links here&quot;, you'll see all the articles which link to it as its current name. All of them would have to change. Also check [[Master (Doctor Who)]] which you've already moved, not nearly as many, but you can see what has happened. [[User:Tim!|Tim!]] ([[User talk:Tim!|talk]]) 20:31, 15 August 2005 (UTC)
:::::I've reverted the page move until final disposition of this discussion - it's going to be a massive project to fix the redirects, so I think we should all be appraised of the consequences and be prepared to accept it before we proceed with any moves. --[[User:Khaosworks|khaosworks]] ([[User talk:Khaosworks|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Khaosworks|contribs]]) 22:40, August 15, 2005 (UTC)
::::::I'm still not seeing the problem. If people click on a link that's a redirect, it'd direct them to the article that the redirect page is a redirect to. If people click on [[Aeris]], they'd still be sent to [[Aerith Gainsbourg]]. The only problem is double redirects, of which there would only be two for [[Doctor (Doctor Who)]]. Or this a Wikipedia style thing? --[[User:Apostrophe|Apostrophe]] 04:06, 16 August 2005 (UTC)
::::::I also don't see the problem with the redirects, I move pages like this every once in a while and rarely have to fix more than a handful. The only time large numbers of articles ''need'' relinking is when pages split into several articles for disambiguation-related reasons. Relinking articles to bypass redirects is a cosmetic thing that I only bother to do when I'm already editing a page for other reasons. [[User:Bryan Derksen|Bryan]] 04:40, 16 August 2005 (UTC)

:::::::Ultimately, after consideration, my position is that I don't mind either way - just that it be consistent. That is, if we move remove the &quot;The&quot;, then it should be the same for all, i.e. The War Chief, the Master, etc. We'll just have to fix the redirects as we find them. --[[User:Khaosworks|khaosworks]] ([[User talk:Khaosworks|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Khaosworks|contribs]]) 04:54, August 16, 2005 (UTC)
::::::::So, if there's no objection, I'll start moving some that I can, then. --[[User:Apostrophe|Apostrophe]] 21:50, 16 August 2005 (UTC)

:::::::::Do try to get a head start on fixing some of the redirects as you can too, while you're at it. --[[User:Khaosworks|khaosworks]] ([[User talk:Khaosworks|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Khaosworks|contribs]]) 22:26, August 16, 2005 (UTC)

''This article has been renamed after the result of a [[wikipedia:requested moves|move request]].'' [[User:Violetriga|violet/riga]] [[User_talk:violetriga|(t)]] 13:45, 21 August 2005 (UTC)

== [[Mr_Saxon#Mr._Saxon|Mr. Saxon]] ==

There has been speculation that Mr. Harold Saxon in the upcoming finale to the latest series of Doctor Who is the Monk. The Monk; the first enemy time lord the Doctor met in the original series, wanted King Harold the Saxon to win the Battle of Hastings and rewrite history so that the Saxons were victorious. It could be this &quot;Saxon&quot; is the name sake of that attempt, and the first enemy time lord the Doctor meets in the new series as well. [[User:207.202.227.125|207.202.227.125]] 01:53, 3 May 2007 (UTC)


good point, although, if he is the monk then surely he would be preaching instead ofrunning the country??? --[[User:Dwrules|click here]] 14:50, 27 May 2007 (UTC)

Well, it's being confrimed that the Master will be in the series finale, so the chances of seeing two Time Lord enemies of the Doctor seems slim, but you never know. ''[[User:Michael Mad|Michael Mad]] 15:27, 15 June 2007 (UTC)''

== Character name ==

What evidence is there, really, that this character's name is &quot;The Meddling Monk&quot;?  Surely, the monk was just a disguise for the purposes of the specific story, and that his continued use of the disguise, as seen in DMP, was because the Doctor had stranded him in an era where the disguise was still relevant. Should the reference to him as &quot;The Time Meddler&quot; by the DWM story, &quot;4-Dimensional Vistas&quot;, not be given greater credence as an attempt to take the name of the character from the title of the serial in which he appeared, rather than the deceptive narrative?   He wasn't a monk when he was stealing all that other loot we see in his TARDIS in &quot;The Time Meddler&quot;.  He took other disguises appropriate to the various eras to aid his plunder. 

Somehow, I think the article needs to go a bit further in explaining why DWM made the choice they did.  I think it wouldn't be too far to suggest that &quot;The Time Meddler&quot; be given consideration in the first sentence of the article as an alternative name for the character, and then to explain later in the article why there's ambiguity about the name.  Calling the character, &quot;The Meddlng Monk&quot;—no matter how well-entrenched that now is in fan circles—is a bit like saying the name of the Master is &quot;Mr. Magister&quot;, or any one of the dozens of other disguises the Master had.  Somehow, over the years, &quot;the meddling Monk&quot; has turned into &quot;The Meddling Monk&quot;, and it's not really accurate. [[User:CzechOut|CzechOut]] 00:59, 14 May 2007 (UTC)

== Marooned? ==

On my viewing of &quot;Escape Switch&quot;, the Monk was not marooned on the desolate planet, it was merely somewhere he'd landed before realising that his directional circuit had been removed.  The Monk then complains (and I paraphrase) that now he is doomed to wander the universe like the Doctor.  But that he will get his own back, one day.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/77.44.68.223|77.44.68.223]] ([[User talk:77.44.68.223|talk]]) 10:04, 29 July 2011 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== LOTS of citations required ==

This article contains a LOT of wild claims, fanboy speculation, and bizarre OR conclusions. What is lacks are real valid sources which back up ANY of the statements presented as fact. I have tagged many of these. These have previously been removed, but since nobody has made any effort to provide [[WP:RS]], I have put them back in. The way the article reads now is most definitely not up to Wikipedia standards.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/41.132.116.62|41.132.116.62]] ([[User talk:41.132.116.62|talk]]) 11:50, 12 May 2012 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:Please see [[WP:TAGBOMB]]. The top of the article has {{tlx|refimprove}} and {{tlx|Original research}}: these should be sufficient - you may raise specific points on this talk page. --[[User:Redrose64|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#a80000; background:#ffeeee; text-decoration:inherit&quot;&gt;Red&lt;/span&gt;rose64]] ([[User talk:Redrose64|talk]]) 17:06, 12 May 2012 (UTC)

But it isn't &quot;specific points&quot;. Going line-by-line, MOST of the article is unsourced and OR. Even the article's name itself is OR! This discussion would inevitable focus on one or two points(assuming any sort of discussion even takes place). Until the,m each and every point must be marked, for someone to either improve, source, or remove it.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/41.132.116.62|41.132.116.62]] ([[User talk:41.132.116.62|talk]]) 05:43, 13 May 2012 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Point-by-point ==

1)The '''Meddling Monk''' or simply '''The Monk'''.... Says who? The episode crdits list the character as &quot;The Monk&quot;. &quot;The Meddling Monk&quot; is the name of an episode, not a character.

2)The character appeared in two stories... However, an interview with Terrance Dicks(which I'm trying to find the link to) establishes that the character of [[The War Chief]] was supposed to be implied to the the regenerated character from The Time Meddler. Further, [[Doctor Who Magazine]] Issue 75(April 1983) previews the then-forthcoming [[The Kings' Demons]] with references to The Time Meddler. Of course the villain in The King's Demons turned out to be [[The Master]]. Two years later the FASA Role Playing Game stated that &quot;The Monk&quot; and &quot;The War Chief&quot; were prior incarnations of The Master. And a 1988 edition of [[Mastermind]] had a contestant with the specialist subject of Doctor Who being asked &quot;In which serial did The Mad Monk(not 'meddling') first use the name The 'Master' &quot;?

3)[The Monk] claimed to have left the Doctor's then unnamed home planet some 50 years after the Doctor did... he did no such thing. The Doctor remarks to Vicki and Steven that they're from the same place ''but I would say that I am fifty years earlier''(Doctor's words). The character who the article is about NEVER mentions ANY time or age or anything, besides his stating ''I'm getting too old for this'' at one point.

4)...when the Doctor first encountered him... The first encounter in the television show. It could be reworded that way. It is made abundantly clear both in the show and in other media that this is not their first encounter.

5)...hence the name by which he became known... which one? The credits refer to him as &quot;The Monk&quot;, Doctor Who Magazine refers to him as &quot;The Time Meddler&quot;, Mastermind refers to him as &quot;The Mad Monk&quot;, Dicks refers to him as &quot;The War Chief&quot;, The FASA Game states that he is &quot;The Master&quot;, while he simply disguised himself as &quot;a monk&quot;. Meanwhile, Wikipedia has an article called &quot;The Meddling Monk&quot;.

6)The two never met on-screen again....I need to find the link to the Dicks interview, and then there's the FASA Game and the Mastermind episode(it was 1988 but I'll try and find the exact date. Of note it was BEFORE any '''unauthorized''' or '''unofficial''' guides which are used by some as a Reliable Source).

7)...the Monk last being seen... (see above, and note the &quot;Meddling&quot; part has been dropped by whoever wrote this article)

8)Unlike the Doctor's adversaries....such as The Master... see FASA, Mastermind etc.

9)The Monk was presented as a comic figure... Because he planned to wipe out the entire Viking fleet with a nuclear warhead?

10)...who was not half as clever as he thought he was...The Doctor reduced the &quot;Monk's&quot; TARDIS interior to the size of a small doll's house, yet he repaired the circuit(using only 11the Century technology) and tracked the Doctor down.  Later, the Doctor disabled his chameleon circuit, yet he repaired that almost immediately, something the Doctor was NEVER able to do.

11)...never seemed to realise the seriousness of what he was doing...s with ALL these points there are NO [[WP:RS]] and it is all [[WP:OR]]. My comments are also largely [[WP:OR]] (for now), but it is worth pointing out this section is supposed to show the '''difference''' between &quot;The Meddling Monk&quot;(or whatever he's called at this point) and The Master. In terms of not realising the seriousness of doing something...watch The Master in [[Logopolis]].

12)...disguising how dangerous a person like The Monk(I think &quot;Meddling&quot; has been abandoned by now) can really be...well pure [[WP:OR]] really

13)...propagated mainly... Says who? Pure [[WP:OR}] and [[WP:POV]]. LONG before the FASA game existed it was widely held as fact. Of course my saying that is no more a [[WP:RS]] than what is stated in the article, but it is certainly no LESS a [[WP:RS]] than what is stated in the article.

14)...this theory has not been as widespread in recent years...Says who? A quick search of Google dispels that idea. Also the fact that it's referred to as a [[theory]] would make it on sound footing.

15)...that The Doctor and The Monk had not met previously...The Monk immediately recognises The Doctor, The Doctor states ''And what are you trying to get up to this time?'' Best of all, the same people who stated that they'd &quot;not met previously&quot;(first published in [[The Discontinuity Guide]] would later point  to [[Divided Loyalties]] as &quot;proof&quot; that &quot;Mortimus The Time Meddling Mad Monk&quot; and &quot;Doktor Magnus Felix Kriegslieter The War Chief&quot; aren't the same person.

If this can all be boiled down to simple problems...it is the COMPLETE LACK OF [[WP:RS]]. It is the fact that the article is a bunch of stitched-together myths that have been swirling amongst people who clearly haven't even watched the episodes properly.  People reading something in a fanzine, or putting 2 and 2 together and getting 5, and then writing a whole article using these &quot;facts&quot;! There are no RS, and it's all [[WP:OR]], and a pretty poor job of OR as well.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/41.132.116.62|41.132.116.62]] ([[User talk:41.132.116.62|talk]]) 07:11, 13 May 2012 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== What is the proper procedure for contesting citations? ==

Someone has added 2 citation, both of which are links to other Wikipedia articles. Namely the &quot;claimed to have left Gallifrey 50 years after the Doctor&quot; and the &quot;last seen on a desolate icy planet&quot;. Since when it is considered [[WP:RS]] to link to another Wikipedia article, which also doesn't have the [[WP:RS]]?  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/41.132.116.62|41.132.116.62]] ([[User talk:41.132.116.62|talk]]) 17:06, 13 May 2012 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:The serials proper (primary source) were cited (summarising the plot). The links to Wikipedia articles are helpful links included in the cite serial template. [[User:DonQuixote|DonQuixote]] ([[User talk:DonQuixote|talk]]) 17:10, 13 May 2012 (UTC)

But surely that is [[WP:OR]]? Those articles don't have the [[WP:RS]] either. Thus you are using one unsourced Wikipedia article as the source for another unsourced Wikipedia article. You would need the plot summary of a '''reliable''' published book, not another Wikipedia article that is similarly lacking anything to back up much of its content.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/41.132.116.62|41.132.116.62]] ([[User talk:41.132.116.62|talk]]) 17:15, 13 May 2012 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:As was pointed out above, it was the Doctor who hypothesised that the Monk left Gallifrey 50 years after the Doctor did. That's a plot summary. That just requires the primary source. All the other stuff which are OR still have their citation needed tags. [[User:DonQuixote|DonQuixote]] ([[User talk:DonQuixote|talk]]) 17:21, 13 May 2012 (UTC)

== No [[WP:RS]] for several claims ==

The &quot;Other appearances&quot; section is just people giving their own interpretation of stories, some of which were inaccurate, and nearly all of which were completely unsourced. Of course, the only one with any source was the FASA Game. Also, having 'Mortimus' appear somewhere is unrelated here. Unless it states it is the same character as this article, it's [[WP:OR]]. The whole Divided Loyalties thing, the claims of what unpublished chapters would have said and what was hinted at in other books, the POV nonsense, and all unsourced. As such, a lot(though far from all) of it has been removed. If anyone wants to reinstate '''any''' of that, it will need to be properly [[WP:V]].  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/41.132.178.141|41.132.178.141]] ([[User talk:41.132.178.141|talk]]) 12:03, 28 August 2014 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

::The additional information I included is NOT based on interpretation, and it should be included. It is part of the introduction as information for the gameplayers and the gamesmaster, it casts doubt on the legitimacy of any information in the book and has to be included if the source is to be considered valid for inclusion. If the edit war continues, any information from the FASA game should be deleted, as I supplied the information and have access to the source material. [[Special:Contributions/82.26.182.43|82.26.182.43]] ([[User talk:82.26.182.43|talk]]) 14:38, 28 August 2014 (UTC)
:::Use [[template:cite book]]. [[User:DonQuixote|DonQuixote]] ([[User talk:DonQuixote|talk]]) 14:43, 28 August 2014 (UTC)
::::The citation exists already, the only thing he forgot to delete [[Special:Contributions/82.26.182.43|82.26.182.43]] ([[User talk:82.26.182.43|talk]]) 15:05, 28 August 2014 (UTC)

1)What does it say in the book? Exactly? Please quote it here. Just so we can be sure it's not OR.

2)DonQuixote is fixated with Divided Loyalties. Yet it never mentions anything about a character called 'The Monk' least of all one who has a biography that is anything listed in this article. And it's totally unsourced either way.

3)That's the big thing, sources. This whole article reads like some small child's bizarre interpretation of something they've heard third- or fourth- hand. The one thing it sorely lacks is any sort of RS. ANd most of the so-called RS here, are sources where what is claimed to be verified is not actually listed in the source that is cited.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/41.132.178.141|41.132.178.141]] ([[User talk:41.132.178.141|talk]]) 15:14, 28 August 2014 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:Er...what? I'm sorry, but that's just another one of your strawmen. I couldn't care less about Divided Loyalties...in fact, I have never read it. What I do care about is proper citation of reliable sources.
:And yes, this article needs a major rewrite. Feel free to do so. And to make sure that this article is well written, please be sure to cite all your sources and make sure that they're considered reliable. [[User:DonQuixote|DonQuixote]] ([[User talk:DonQuixote|talk]]) 15:18, 28 August 2014 (UTC)

:: Page 4/Introduction
::''CIA FILE EXTRACTS- A short module of the player's information is included in this supplement. Taking the form of a CIA briefing on the Master, the CIA file extracts book is neither complete nor totally accurate. It sometimes reflects the opinions, conjectures, and outright fabrications injected by its Time Lord authors, rather than the absolute truth needed by the gamemaster''

::Page 4/Introduction
::''Gamemasters are, of course, free to introduce alternative explanations and interpretations of the material offered here. For example, if a gamemaster disagrees with the concept of identifying the Master with the meddling Monk who faced the first Doctor, or if he feels there is a better explanation of the Master's escape from the volcanic fire on Sarn, such changes should be freely implmented''  [[Special:Contributions/82.26.182.43|82.26.182.43]] ([[User talk:82.26.182.43|talk]]) 15:38, 28 August 2014 (UTC)
::: I have previously included the relevant Monk/Master information from the CIA File extracts in the 'Other appearances' section.[[Special:Contributions/82.26.182.43|82.26.182.43]] ([[User talk:82.26.182.43|talk]]) 15:38, 28 August 2014 (UTC)

Out of curiosity, does the fact that the book is effectively saying that anything or everything written within, concerning the Monk/Master's history, is potentially bovine feces, mean that it isn't a reliable enough source for Wikipedia anyway? [[Special:Contributions/82.26.182.43|82.26.182.43]] ([[User talk:82.26.182.43|talk]]) 15:47, 28 August 2014 (UTC)
:My honest critique is that it can be mentioned here, but more detailed description of the game contents can be described in the game's own article. [[User:DonQuixote|DonQuixote]] ([[User talk:DonQuixote|talk]]) 15:56, 28 August 2014 (UTC)

Er, that's '''in-universe'''. And it's merely saying that the players are free to change elements of the Role Playing Game as they see fit. However, the Module itself identifies the Master with 'The Monk'. It's like if you get together with friends to play football. There are official rules of the game. But you and your friends having fun on a Saturday afternoon may choose to mix it up a bit by changing a few rules. But that doesn't change what the actual rules are. And typical DonQuixote for trying to distort what it actually says, and making several illogical leaps from there...  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/41.132.178.141|41.132.178.141]] ([[User talk:41.132.178.141|talk]]) 16:29, 28 August 2014 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
::The second quote I gave you, yes, however the first quote casts doubts on the validity of the CIA file extract and it is the '''very same''' CIA file extract that you find the information on the Monk being the Master. If it is stated to be &quot;neither complete nor totally accurate&quot; and &quot;reflecting the outright fabrications of its Time Lord authors&quot;, you effectively have a source which questions its own legitimacy, and i'm sure that is an important piece of information if the 'not-we' are ever to come across the Monk article for further info on the character and draw their own conclusions.[[Special:Contributions/82.26.182.43|82.26.182.43]] ([[User talk:82.26.182.43|talk]]) 16:56, 28 August 2014 (UTC)

Well, the article is already skewed as it is. Some may say that this article existing in its own right is already OR/POV. But the point is, how would you suggets the information be added? Could you show a rough text here on the discussion page?  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/41.132.178.141|41.132.178.141]] ([[User talk:41.132.178.141|talk]]) 19:04, 28 August 2014 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
::To be honest, I agree with both of you. The article itself really needs to be sorted out. At the moment i'd only add something in the same vein as what I wrote before, but if that comes across as OR/POV to you or anyone else reading it, even with a citation, there's not really much point at this stage.[[Special:Contributions/82.26.182.43|82.26.182.43]] ([[User talk:82.26.182.43|talk]]) 20:18, 28 August 2014 (UTC)

==Quantum Archangel issue==
Why are the events of the novel 'Quantum Archangel' being contested, or having doubt cast upon them?

If you google 'Quantum Archangel Monk' you will find multiple references to them.

[[Special:Contributions/86.25.30.125|86.25.30.125]] ([[User talk:86.25.30.125|talk]]) 13:56, 8 September 2014 (UTC)
:A quick skim of the book results in 'Mortimus, otherwise known as the Monk' (pg. 233). [[User:DonQuixote|DonQuixote]] ([[User talk:DonQuixote|talk]]) 14:07, 8 September 2014 (UTC)
::Thank you. Hope this helps others [[Special:Contributions/86.25.30.125|86.25.30.125]] ([[User talk:86.25.30.125|talk]]) 14:15, 8 September 2014 (UTC)
:::I have further removed any information I have written that hasn't had a reliable third party source attached to it. Hope this sorts out any issues [[Special:Contributions/86.25.30.125|86.25.30.125]] ([[User talk:86.25.30.125|talk]]) 15:28, 8 September 2014 (UTC)

86 is taking things to unfortunate lengths. At this point the article may be beyond salvation anyway, as it's just a bunch of fanon and OR slung together to create somebody's POV fan fiction idea rather than anything using proper RS. I wash my hands of this mess of an &quot;Article&quot;. Feel free to add whatever fan fiction you like, I'm beyond caring at this point. [[Special:Contributions/41.132.178.141|41.132.178.141]] ([[User talk:41.132.178.141|talk]]) 15:34, 8 September 2014 (UTC)

::There's absolutely no point in deliberately targeting my edits just because they don't fit your POV. Most of the article exists without third party reference, therefore it is clear that you are aiming to remove anything that you disagree with. You can't have it both ways, either accept that some material contradicts your 'theory' or have none that may confirm it. Your choice. [[Special:Contributions/86.25.30.125|86.25.30.125]] ([[User talk:86.25.30.125|talk]]) 15:39, 8 September 2014 (UTC)

I've looked at what's happened since I stopped editing, and 86 has reinstated all his/her nonsense, while DonQuxiote has now added cn tags to the one story that is unambiguously the same character. Thank you for confirming my worst fears about mankind.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/41.132.178.141|41.132.178.141]] ([[User talk:41.132.178.141|talk]]) 16:25, 8 September 2014 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
::Never touched it, and if your worst fears about mankind involve people disagreeing with your monopoly over certain Wikipedia articles, then it's about time really. Just be kinder in future, accept that not everyone wants to be told what to believe. [[Special:Contributions/86.25.30.125|86.25.30.125]] ([[User talk:86.25.30.125|talk]]) 16:33, 8 September 2014 (UTC)
::(EC) Er...you have everything backwards. If you have to say 'however, it was clearly the same character', then it's not unambiguous. If you can directly quote the primary source, such as 'Mortimus, otherwise known as the Monk', then it's unambiguous. Right now I'm going through my DWM #78-83 to check whether it is 'clearly the same character'.
::And all that stuff you dislike isn't nonsense or fanon because it's published works of fiction. Wikipedia doesn't care about fanon or continuity or whatever but about the works of fiction as being works of fiction--publication, marketing, cultural influence, etc. [[User:DonQuixote|DonQuixote]] ([[User talk:DonQuixote|talk]]) 16:38, 8 September 2014 (UTC)
:::I gave the page a semi-prot, hopefully it will be discussed in a civil manner. --[[User:Redrose64|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#a80000; background:#ffeeee; text-decoration:inherit&quot;&gt;Red&lt;/span&gt;rose64]] ([[User talk:Redrose64|talk]]) 16:51, 8 September 2014 (UTC)
::Would the DW reference guides by [[Mad Norwegian Press]] be considered [[WP:VERIFY|reliable sources]]? --&lt;font color=&quot;#666666&quot;&gt;‖ [[User:Ebyabe|Ebyabe]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:Ebyabe|talk]]&lt;/sup&gt; - &lt;small&gt;[[Special:Contributions/Ebyabe|&lt;span style=&quot;cursor:help;&quot;&gt;''Union of Opposites''&lt;/small&gt;&lt;/span&gt;]]&lt;/font&gt; ‖ 17:01, 8 September 2014 (UTC)
:::Yes. They are reliable secondary sources which discuss the primary sources (the works of fiction). As such, they would certainly be useful in this discussion. —[[User:Josiah Rowe|Josiah Rowe]] &lt;small&gt;([[User talk:Josiah Rowe|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Josiah Rowe|contribs]])&lt;/small&gt; 04:14, 9 September 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>