<article id="15345425" title=User talk:67.81.43.175>
	<talkpage id="15345425" title="User talk:67.81.43.175">



==Welcome==

{| align=&quot;center&quot; class=&quot;notice noprint&quot; style=&quot;background: lightyellow; border: 1px solid #aaa; padding: 0.5em; margin: 0.5em auto;&quot;
|-
| valign=&quot;top&quot; style=&quot;padding: 0.1em&quot; |
| style=&quot;padding: 0.1em&quot; | 

'''''Welcome to Wikipedia'''''
----

Hello, and [[Wikipedia:Welcome, newcomers|welcome]] to Wikipedia! 

Thank you for [[Special:Contributions/{{PAGENAME}}|your contributions]].  I hope you like it here and decide to stay.  

Someone using this IP address has made inappropriate edits{{#if:Boiling|&amp;nbsp;to the page [[Boiling]]|}}, which have been [[Help:Revert|reverted]].  If you did this, in the future please try to contribute in a more constructive manner.  If you did not do this, you may wish to consider [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:Userlogin&amp;type=signup&amp;returnto=Main_Page getting a username] to avoid confusion with other editors.

You don't have to [[Special:Userlogin|log in]] to read or edit articles on Wikipedia, but creating an account is quick, free and non-intrusive, requires no personal information, and there are many [[Wikipedia:Why create an account?|benefits of having a username]].  Without a username, your [[IP address]] is used to identify you.

If you need help see:
*[[Help:Contents|Help contents]] - the main help page.
*[[Wikipedia:Quick guide|Quick guide]] - a &quot;cheatsheet&quot; listing the main editing commands.

Here are a few more good links for newcomers:
*[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]]
*[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
*[[Wikipedia:Article development|How to write a great article]]
*[[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]]
*[[Wikipedia talk:Accessibility]]

I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! Please [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|sign your name]] on talk pages using four (~&amp;#126;~~); this will automatically produce your name and timestamp. If you need help, check out [[Wikipedia:Questions]], ask me on {{#if:Tanthalas39|[[User talk:Tanthalas39{{!}}my talk page]]|my talk page}}, or place &lt;code&gt;{&amp;#123;helpme}}&lt;/code&gt; on your talk page and someone will show up shortly to answer your questions. 

Again, welcome! [[User:Tanthalas39|Tanthalas39]] ([[User talk:Tanthalas39|talk]]) 16:35, 21 January 2008 (UTC)
|}
	</talkpage>
</article>