<article id="36229559" title=Talk:Bernice Sandler>
	<talkpage id="36229559" title="Talk:Bernice Sandler">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Biography|living=yes
|class=Start
|listas=Sandler, Bernice
}}
{{WikiProject United States|class=Start|importance=Low}}
{{WikiProject Feminism|class=Start|importance=High}}
{{WikiProject Women's History|class=start|importance=mid}}
| blp=yes
}}
 
== Contested deletion ==

This page should not be speedy deleted as an unambiguous copyright infringement, because... (your reason here) --[[User:Dante8|Dante8]] ([[User talk:Dante8|talk]]) 18:03, 23 June 2012 (UTC)

I will remove the copyrighted portion.
:Okay, looks good now from what I can tell [[User:Rotorcowboy|Rotorcowboy]] {{su|p=[[User talk:Rotorcowboy|talk]]|b=[[Special:Contributions/Rotorcowboy|contribs]]|fontsize=1.5ex}} 18:15, 23 June 2012 (UTC)

==Things to do== 
To get this up to B or GA class... 
* request subject for a free photo
* better references -- needs more and more diverse reliable references; current references need to be properly cited (e.g. murray citation is incomplete)
* reference for &quot;new york times&quot; sentence - I can only find the very vague [http://www.nytimes.com/2002/05/09/sports/colleges-more-men-s-teams-benched-as-colleges-level-the-field.html?pagewanted=all&amp;src=pm] which is pretty unsatisfactory. May need to be changed to &quot;many people have called her the godmother...&quot; or similar
* finished bibliography -- still missing several older publications, cf worldcat
* more on current work on harassment? 
* better personal biographical details, if possible 
-- [[user:phoebe|phoebe]] / &lt;small&gt;([[user_talk:phoebe|talk to me]])&lt;/small&gt; 14:54, 18 August 2013 (UTC)

==Copyvio==
{{CCId|Dante8}}
:Unfortunately, this article was created by a user who is subject to a contributor copyright investigation for large scale, long-term copyright issues. (See {{CCIlink|Dante8}}) Copyright issues were obviously identified earlier in this article, but close paraphrasing still remains.  For instance, [http://msa.maryland.gov/msa/educ/exhibits/womenshall/html/sandler.html the source] says:
{{quotebox|She wrote the first report on peer harassment in the classroom and the first report examining the process and procedures used to nominate and award campus prizes that inadvertently exclude women. Dr. Sandler also wrote the first report on campus gang rape and the first report providing search committees with questions to determine how supportive potential faculty or administrative members were of gender equality. In 1982, she wrote the first report on the chilly campus climate, a term Dr. Sandler coined to describe how small unknown behaviors can have a detrimental impact on women's ambition, contribution, and self-esteem. In 1989 and 1990, Dr. Sandler wrote the first reports on the chilly climate faced specifically by African American and Hispanic women on campus.}}
:The article says:
{{quotebox|'''She''' also '''wrote the first report on peer harassment in the classroom, the first report examining the process and procedures used to nominate and award campus prizes that''' she thought '''inadvertently exclude'''d''' women, and the first report providing search committees with questions to determine how supportive potential faculty or administrative members were of gender equality. In 1982, she wrote the first report on''' what she called '''the chilly campus climate, a term''' she '''coined to describe how''' she thought '''small unknown behaviors can have a detrimental impact on women's ambition, contribution, and self-esteem. In 1989 and 1990,''' she '''wrote the first reports on the chilly climate''' she thought was '''faced specifically by African American and Hispanic women''' at colleges and universities.}}
:Citations have been omitted and content bolded where copying is precise to clarify the issue.

:Other sources have not been checked, but due to this contributor's history should be if any of his content is to be retained. --[[User:Moonriddengirl|Moonriddengirl]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:Moonriddengirl|(talk)]]&lt;/sup&gt; 18:33, 12 April 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>