<article id="32084881" title=Talk:Brouhaha>
	<talkpage id="32084881" title="Talk:Brouhaha">

==floated article==
Not sure why previous article was deleted (maybe not done right?) It's a word I didn't know much about but found myself using so I wrote this.--[[User:Tomwsulcer|Tomwsulcer]] ([[User talk:Tomwsulcer|talk]]) 18:35, 14 June 2011 (UTC)

:Second thought -- just looked over discussion about why previous article was deleted, (hadn't seen it before) and the reasoning was that it was just a definition. I'm kind of thinking an article about this term would be better with examples and etymology. Still, I'm less sure about keeping it now after reading the previous discussion. I'd like it in Wikipedia but I can see reasons against. Forgot what the tag is to ask an administrator to delete this. Feel free to speedy delete it if others feel this way. --[[User:Tomwsulcer|Tomwsulcer]] ([[User talk:Tomwsulcer|talk]]) 18:39, 14 June 2011 (UTC) --[[User:Tomwsulcer|Tomwsulcer]] ([[User talk:Tomwsulcer|talk]]) 00:32, 15 June 2011 (UTC)
::I also see the reasoning behind that action, but, too, concur that there's something more meaningful here than just the term itself.
:::''The Washington Post described an incident as a brouhaha in which a passenger, on board a jetliner, reclined the seat to the point where it bothered a second passenger, resulting in a fistfight, intervention by flight attendants, and the plane returning to the airport escorted by fighter jets''
::Examples like this seem to describe a phenomenon that exceeds rudimentary dictionary definitions. &lt;span style=&quot;background:black;color:white&quot;&gt;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;'''''—&amp;nbsp;'''''[[User:CMBJ|&lt;span style=&quot;background:black;color:white&quot;&gt;'''''C&amp;nbsp;M&amp;nbsp;B&amp;nbsp;J'''''&lt;/span&gt;]]&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt; 14:01, 14 December 2011 (UTC)

== Why no reference to the franciphone?   ==

Why is there no reference to &quot;http://fr.wiktionary.org/wiki/brouhaha&quot;?  
This is clearely a French reference.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/71.175.137.164|71.175.137.164]] ([[User talk:71.175.137.164|talk]]) 00:17, 7 October 2011 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== [[WP:DICDEF]] ==

Is this more than just a dictionary entry, discussing the etymology and usage of this word and providing some examples of how the word has been used? Does this have the potential to become more than just a dictionary entry, without being redundant to the article on [[[[conflict]]]]? [[User:-sche|-sche]] ([[User talk:-sche|talk]]) 04:01, 12 August 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>