<article id="24221218" title=User talk:Jessunshine>
	<talkpage id="24221218" title="User talk:Jessunshine">


== Welcome ==
&lt;!-- Template:Welcomelaws --&gt;
'''Welcome!'''&lt;br&gt;Hello and [[Wikipedia:Welcome, newcomers|welcome]] to [[Wikipedia]]. Thank you for [[Special:Contributions/{{PAGENAME}}|your contributions]]. I hope you like the place and decide to stay. The following links will help you begin editing on Wikipedia:
*[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The Five Pillars of Wikipedia]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]]
*[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Editing tutorial]]
*[[Wikipedia:Picture tutorial|Picture tutorial]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to write a great article|How to write a great article]]
*[[Wikipedia:Naming conventions|Naming conventions]]
*[[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]]

'''Please bear these points in mind while editing Wikipedia:'''
* '''[[Wikipedia:Copyrights|Respect copyrights]]''' - do not copy and paste text or images directly from other websites.
* Maintain a '''[[Wikipedia:Neutral point of view|neutral point of view]]''' - this is possibly the most important Wikipedia policy.
* Take particular care while adding biographical material about a '''[[Wikipedia:Biographies of living persons| living person]]''' to any Wikipedia page. Particularly, controversial and negative statements should be [[Wikipedia:Citing sources|referenced]] to multiple [[Wikipedia:Reliable sources|reliable sources]].
* If you are testing, please use the '''[[Wikipedia:Sandbox|Sandbox]]''' to [{{fullurl:Wikipedia:Sandbox|action=edit}} do so].
* Do not add troublesome content to any [[Wikipedia:What is an article|article]], such as: [[copyright]]ed text, [[Wikipedia:Libel|libel]], advertising or promotional messages, and text that is not related to an article's subject. Deliberately adding such content or otherwise editing articles maliciously is considered [[Wikipedia:Vandalism|vandalism]], doing so will result your account or IP being [[WP:BLOCK|blocked from editing]].

The [[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Wikipedia Tutorial]] is a good place to start learning about Wikipedia. If you have any questions, see the [[Wikipedia:Help|help pages]], add a question to the [[Wikipedia:village pump|village pump]] or ask me on {{#if:Verbal|[[User talk:Verbal{{!}}my talk page]]|my talk page}}. By the way, you can sign your name on Talk and discussion pages using four tildes, like this: &amp;#126;&amp;#126;&amp;#126;&amp;#126; (the software will replace them with your signature and the date). Again, welcome! 
&lt;span style=&quot;font-family:Papyrus&quot;&gt;[[User:Verbal|&lt;b style=&quot;color:#C72&quot;&gt;Verbal&lt;/b&gt;]] &lt;small&gt;[[User talk:Verbal#top|&lt;span style=&quot;color:Gray;&quot;&gt;chat&lt;/span&gt;]]&lt;/small&gt;&lt;/span&gt; 14:17, 4 September 2009 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>