<article id="17863943" title=Talk:Max Ritter von Müller>
	<talkpage id="17863943" title="Talk:Max Ritter von Müller">
{{Talk header}}
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Biography
|living=no
|class=B
|military-work-group=yes
|listas=Muller, Max
}}
{{WikiProject Military history|class=B
|Aviation=yes
|Biography=yes
|WWI=yes
|German=yes

&lt;!-- B-Class-1. It is suitably referenced, and all major points have appropriate inline citations. --&gt;
|B-Class-1=Y
&lt;!-- B-Class-2. It reasonably covers the topic, and does not contain obvious omissions or inaccuracies. --&gt;
|B-Class-2=Y
&lt;!-- B-Class-3. It has a defined structure, including a lead section and one or more sections of content. --&gt;
|B-Class-3=Y
&lt;!-- B-Class-4. It is free from major grammatical errors. --&gt;
|B-Class-4=Y
&lt;!-- B-Class-5. It contains appropriate supporting materials, such as an infobox, images, or diagrams. --&gt;
|B-Class-5=Y
}}
{{WikiProject Aviation|class=B|Biography=yes}}
}}
{{Translated page|de|Max von Müller}}


== Article Massively Edited ==

I've added more information to it. Previously, there were only two sentences for the man, something which I found to be unacceptable. I've added several paragraphs of information, and my source is the great book ''German Knights of the Air: 1914 - 1918: The Holders of the Orden Pour le Merite'' by Terry C. Treadwell and Alan C. Wood. I'll get a link up to it pretty soon, that is IF I need one since it's a book.

[[User:VonV|VonV]] ([[User talk:VonV|talk]]) 09:03, 19 July 2008 (UTC)

I expanded the article, using www.theaerodrome.com as reference. This website has a meticulous listing of Mueller's victories, which is in considerable disagreement with VonV's text.

I appreciate VonV's lively lucid style, so the next comment is a difficult one to make. Without being facetious or nasty, I must wonder if we were writing about the same man. The majority of Mueller's victories were scored while he was in Jasta 28, yet VonV's account didn't mention it at all. There is also tremendous variance in the victory roll, with VonV saying Mueller scored 13 victories in 1916 and the website listing only five. These are the most egregious errors.

I have no wish to start an edit war with VonV. It may be that we are both accurately quoting texts that are in serious disagreement with each other. However, in the interests of veracity, we may need a neutral third party to step in and evaluate this article.

````George J. Dorner, 4 September 2008, 1936 hours PST````  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Georgejdorner|Georgejdorner]] ([[User talk:Georgejdorner|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Georgejdorner|contribs]]) 02:37, 5 September 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

I found another website and used info from it to expand on this article again. Once again, I am finding variances. Trying to synthesize my two variant sources and VonV's original text is difficult. In some spots, I have given both versions of an incident because there is no clear preference.

````George J. Dorner, 14 September 2008, 2252 hours PST````
	</talkpage>
</article>