<article id="12971238" title=Talk:Co-phenotrope>
	<talkpage id="12971238" title="Talk:Co-phenotrope">
{{Reliable sources for medical articles}}
{{WPMED|class=Start|importance=Mid}}

Hi, I tried to add another trade name for this drug, as I was searching for info on it, but took a circuitous route to make it to this page. For some reason though, I can't edit the article itself! If anyone sees this comment who can edit, please add Lofenoxal to the list of names, to help people googling the topic in the future. Thanks! [[Special:Contributions/219.90.151.200|219.90.151.200]] ([[User talk:219.90.151.200|talk]]) 09:59, 20 March 2011 (UTC)

==If==
If you are traveling into Asia or South East Asia or in to area where there are poor hygiene practices, then I suggest that you carry a small supply of Lomotil. After 48 hours of unsuccessful self treatment, seek medical advice. [[User:58.178.103.189|58.178.103.189]] 08:43, 27 August 2007 (UTC)

== Parastesis?? ==

The term &quot;parastesis&quot; is not defined anywhere in Wikipedia, as far as I can tell.  Not only that, but there are only 42 hits in Google for that word, and none of them seem to be high-quality sources.  The word does not appear in [http://cancerweb.ncl.ac.uk/omd/ Cancerweb's online medical dictionary] and [http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/mplusdictionary.html Medline's medical dictionary] redirects to &quot;paresthesia&quot;.

Google gives 148 hits for &quot;parestesis&quot;, almost all of which are Spanish-language pages.  In those pages it appears to my untrained eye to be the equivalent of &quot;paresthesia&quot;.

Unless anyone objects soon, I'm going to edit this to change it to &quot;paresthesia&quot;.

[[User:Omgoleus|Omgoleus]] 03:03, 4 September 2007 (UTC)


==Moving page==
Normally, drug-related pages use the generic name instead of the brand name.  Is there any reason why this wasn't done in this case? [[User:WhatamIdoing|WhatamIdoing]] ([[User talk:WhatamIdoing|talk]]) 20:23, 27 November 2007 (UTC)

== Active ingredients may vary by region ==

Pfizer uses this trademark differently in Mexico. In Mexico, Lomotil-branded tablets contain 2 mg [[Loperamide]].

[http://www.facmed.unam.mx/bmnd/plm_2k8/src/prods/35588.htm http://www.facmed.unam.mx/bmnd/plm_2k8/src/prods/35588.htm] (in Spanish)

According to Google Translate, &quot;Cada TABLETA contiene Clorhidrato de loperamida 2 mg&quot; translates as &quot;Each tablet contains 2 mg loperamide hydrochloride.&quot; --[[User:Keith111|Keith111]] ([[User talk:Keith111|talk]]) 05:28, 23 April 2009 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>