<article id="39554384" title=User talk:Kohelet (usurped)>
	<talkpage id="39554384" title="User talk:Kohelet (usurped)">
==Request for usurpation==

Hello, Kohelet. A request has been made at [[Wikipedia:Changing username/Usurpations]] to usurp, or &quot;take over&quot;, your username because another user would like to use it to edit. The [[Wikipedia:Changing username guidelines|changing username guideline]] allows a username that is not being actively used to be usurped if the user is given an opportunity to object and does not do so. 

If you have an email set in [[Special:Preferences|your preferences]], you should be getting an email from a [[Wikipedia:Bureaucrat|bureaucrat]] or changing username clerk explaining how to consent or object to this process. 

&lt;span style=&quot;color: green;&quot;&gt;'''If you do not object to being renamed'''&lt;/span&gt; to a new username in order for another user to use the name you currently have, please log in and post a reply here saying so (you may also tell us what username you would like to be renamed to, or we will provide you with a generic one). 

&lt;span style=&quot;color: orange;&quot;&gt;'''If you do nothing'''&lt;/span&gt;: the request may be filled shortly, and your account will be moved to a generic username. You may request that it be moved to a new username of your choice at any time.

&lt;span style=&quot;color: crimson;&quot;&gt;'''If you object to being renamed'''&lt;/span&gt;: please log in and make an edit to this page clearly stating that you object to usurpation. Any objection on your part will prevent usurpation.

Please note that '''even if your current username is usurped, you can still edit and your data will not be lost'''; your preferences, watchlist, and other user settings will be transferred to a new username.

Thank you for your time.&lt;!-- Template:Usurpation requested --&gt; [[Special:Contributions/2A00:1028:83CC:42D2:F94A:317F:17B2:AC9E|2A00:1028:83CC:42D2:F94A:317F:17B2:AC9E]] ([[User talk:2A00:1028:83CC:42D2:F94A:317F:17B2:AC9E|talk]]) 08:28, 2 June 2013 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>