<article id="14274124" title=Talk:1990s Post-Soviet aliyah>
	<talkpage id="14274124" title="Talk:1990s Post-Soviet aliyah">
{{WikiProject Israel|class=start|importance=high}}

== Tags ==

This article is a whole lot of unsourced POV. Clearly, a number of the charges would be seen as contentious to some. In other cases, the wording is heavily POV. This article, and its relatives, needs some sourcing and balance.
[[User:Mdbrownmsw|Mdbrownmsw]] 15:31, 16 November 2007 (UTC)

== Number ==
How many jews from the FSU arrived to Israel in the 90's? and in the 2000's? I think is 750.000 but i'm not sure. It's a very important date. --[[Special:Contributions/84.120.245.227|84.120.245.227]] ([[User talk:84.120.245.227|talk]]) 15:32, 31 December 2008 (UTC)

==[[CIS]] is not the same as [[Former Soviet Union]]==
This article should only cover 12 of the 15 states that are members of the Commonwealth of Independent States, or else its title should be changed to include the entire former USSR.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/62.190.51.12|62.190.51.12]] ([[User talk:62.190.51.12|talk]]) 12:37, 29 April 2009 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

:Equally neither of these are the same as &quot;Russian&quot;. The Jewish Pale of the pre-revolutionary Tsarist Russian Empire was in the west of Russia, and to the West of Russia. A lot of these so called &quot;Russian&quot; immigrants probably come from countries other than Russia, such as the Ukraine, and Central Asia.--[[User:MacRusgail|MacRusgail]] ([[User talk:MacRusgail|talk]]) 21:37, 20 January 2011 (UTC)

== Is this grammar acceptable? ==

&quot;Economy

The immigrants '''succeeded to''' integrate '''successfully in''' the Israeli economy and in the different '''branches of''' the economy, and they are characterized as having a higher rate of participation '''in the work market'''. The Israeli high tech field went through a small revolution with '''inculcation of''' several technological ''greenhouses'' which were originally set up to provide employment for the thousands of the scientists and the engineers '''which came through this''' immigration wave.&quot;


The Article from '''Economy''' on is, in general,  very poorly written-- the rhetorical style is barely functional: 

What is the meaning of &quot;greenhouses&quot;. Do greenhouses employ &quot;thousands of scientists and ... engineers&quot; or hundreds of gardeners?

(It might be more useful to state the approximate number of Russian immigrants employed by the divisions of Apple, Intel and Microsoft  in Israel.) 

The very last statement of the Article (not shown here) appears to quote a politician (Netanyahu).  Politicians are known sources of misinformation.

The article is self-limited in scope to the 90's but strays into more recent times.  This is good.  

The Article should perhaps be incorporated into a segment devoted to the demographics of Israel.  And thus include updated employment statistics from the Government (ugh) or NGO sources. [[User:TheLordSayeth|TheLordSayeth]] ([[User talk:TheLordSayeth|talk]]) 14:43, 28 January 2012 (UTC)

== Page Move ==

I just moved this page from ''Russian immigration to Israel in the 1990s&quot; to &quot;1990s Post-Soviet aliyah''. Brining article name in line with [[Template:Aliyah]] + and more important:

In the USSR nobody saw Jews as &quot;ethnic Russian&quot;... Because &quot;Jew&quot; was a separate ethnicity in the USSR (as decided by the USSR Government). So I don't see the point to label them as &quot;Russian&quot; now that they are out of the former USSR. At least not in the article name.

I did a search on Google + Google books to found out if (all) Jews from former USSR countries label themselves as &quot;Russian Jews&quot; even if they where not born in the [[Russian SSR]]... But I could not find that info.... If most or all do label themselves as &quot;Russian Jews&quot; I think they article name should still be &quot;1990s Post-Soviet aliyah&quot;; but (in lead and rest of the article) it should be explained that not all these Jews originated from a place in what is now Russia (the USSR was not Russia; making it look like it was is misleading to readers who know nothing about [[Eastern Europe]]).&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt; — '''[[User:Yulia Romero|&lt;span style=&quot;font-family:Script MT;color:orange&quot;&gt;Yulia Romero&lt;/span&gt;]]'''&amp;nbsp;•&amp;nbsp;[[User_talk:Yulia Romero|&lt;span style=&quot;font-family:Script MT;color:blue&quot;&gt;Talk to me!&lt;/span&gt;]] 18:37, 4 November 2013 (UTC)
:I agree with the move except on one point: the Aliyah is usually considered to have started in 1989, before the USSR collapsed. I suggest finding a year that most sources agree that the Aliyah petered out and then calling the article 1989–[year x] Aliyah from the USSR and CIS, or something like that. —[[Special:Contributions/79.180.166.140|79.180.166.140]] ([[User talk:79.180.166.140|talk]]) 20:22, 4 November 2013 (UTC)

== How many to the USA? ==
According to this article, 600,000 Soviet Jews immigrated to the United States until 1989. However, in a table in the &quot;demographics&quot; section, it says that 291,000 Soviet Jews were granted exodus between 1970 and 1988, of whom 165,000 went to Israel and 126,000 went to the USA. Since it's actually sourced, this article should be using that until we can confirm the 600,000 figure.--[[User:Reenem|&lt;font color=&quot;green&quot;/&gt;RM]] &lt;small&gt;([[User talk:Reenem|&lt;font color=&quot;red&quot;/&gt;Be my friend]])&lt;/small&gt; 19:30, 5 November 2013 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>