<article id="3109991" title=Talk:Mark Curtis (SWP member)>
	<talkpage id="3109991" title="Talk:Mark Curtis (SWP member)">
{{WikiProject Biography
|living=yes
|class=Start
|auto=yes
|politician-work-group=yes
|listas=Curtis, Mark
}}
{| class=&quot;messagebox standard-talk&quot;
|-

| style=&quot;text-align: center&quot; |

==Untitled==
This article was nominated for '''''[[Wikipedia:Deletion policy|deletion]]''''' on [[2005-11-13]].
The result of the discussion was {{{result|'''keep'''}}}. &lt;!-- please do not add bolding to {{{result}}} here: this breaks many places where it is already specified --&gt;
An archived record of this discussion can be found [[Wikipedia:Articles for deletion/Mark Curtis|here]].
|}

==Notability?==
I don't see anything here that establishes this person's notability. 

:Does anyone want to explain why I shouldn't start the Vfd process? --[[User:Christofurio|Christofurio]] 15:59, 8 November 2005 (UTC)

==Link to the Workers League article== 
The link to the Workers League article tends to imply-and plays into-the idea that the Curtis case is somehow a function of the long running sectarian dispute between the Workers League and the SWP with the former always looking for anything to bash the latter with.  Thus WL probably did more to bolster support for Curtis among the Left where the WL are viewed as notorious sectarians and spoilers.  Unfortunately for Curtis, however, information from less biased sources with no axe to grind re the SWP, like the Boston NAACP, came to light about this case that makes it unflattering to Curtis.  The SWP was coy about the victim being African American and that at least one of the arresting officers was also African American.  The Militant actually published the full Iowa Supreme Court opinion in this case which to anyone who actually read it is devastating to Curtis.  His story is in fact patently absurd and a slap in the face to the 14 year old victim whom we are to believe was simply lying in order to facilitate a frame up of a political activist by global forces in her own house.&lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/12.202.54.148|12.202.54.148]] ([[User talk:12.202.54.148|talk]]) 18:47, 24 June 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

==Web forum sources==
Watch out when adding to this [[WP:BLP|BLP]] article to use reaonably reliable sources - I've removed the Yahoo forum sources and the associated text! [[User:Sionk|Sionk]] ([[User talk:Sionk|talk]]) 14:27, 10 August 2012 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>