<article id="2542465" title=Talk:Populus sect. Aigeiros>
	<talkpage id="2542465" title="Talk:Populus sect. Aigeiros">
{{WikiProject Plants|class=Start|importance=Mid}}
{{WikiProject Montana|class=Start|importance=}}
{{Talkheader}}

----

Do people ever use its cotton like they do with [[cotton plant]]? --[[User:Menchi|Menchi]] 07:43, 26 August 2005 (UTC)


How long do they live?


What if they are oozing a watery type substance and it is dripping down ontot he concrete below.... is this a sign of disease?

-----------
In answer to a few of the above questions: I am not sure how long cottonwoods can live, but they can reach respectable sizes and are not as fragile as one might think.

As for the cotton, I don't think it has any commercial value. Some people can be bothered by it, and it does clog up air vents, such as air conditioner compressors. Plant male trees (which don't produce the cottony seeds) to avoid this problem.

In answer to the last question, this sounds like bugs on the tree or some disease that is not unique to cottonwoods.

===Species===
Is the Plains cottonwood (populus sargentii) also known as populus monilifera or populus molinifera?    
[[Special:Contributions/122.27.97.30|122.27.97.30]] ([[User talk:122.27.97.30|talk]]) 04:48, 3 February 2008 (UTC)

== The name ==
So why's it called a cottonwood? The article says nothing about it.

== cottonwood ==

why is the cottonwood different then other trees  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/4.224.156.235|4.224.156.235]] ([[User talk:4.224.156.235|talk]]) 21:51, 25 August 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== cottonwood ==

why is the cottonwood different than other trees?  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/4.224.156.235|4.224.156.235]] ([[User talk:4.224.156.235|talk]]) 22:01, 25 August 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Cotton Wood trees  ==

I lived in Colorado as a child, The Cotton Wood Trees were so tall, so lovely to hear breeses through them in summer and spring, mermering leaves, soft and it makes you relax and lye down in the grass and look up, the leaves mermer makes you relax and fall asleep . ! Sweet memories from child hood. I was lucky to have these trees in my life, it inspired me to become a painter ! The rest of the yard was large, filled with plants, bushes , flowers, garden of foods, grass, apple trees, plum, lilacks, mushrooms, wild asparagus, berries, grapes, ....It was a loveing feel of nature, then. Now I live in Egypt. Life is so filled with new adventures !! 
    Sincerely, 
   Carrol or Amina Kishk ````````  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/41.232.10.228|41.232.10.228]] ([[User talk:41.232.10.228|talk]]) 08:51, 21 March 2009 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Redirect from disambiguation page ==

Would someone correct the redirect from '''Cottonwood tree''', that currently leads to a disambiguation page for Cottonwood, to [[Populus sect. Aegiros]]. A disambiguation redirect is not necessary as a key word would be '''tree'''.
	</talkpage>
</article>