<article id="4216335" title=User talk:Cordiezlaw>
	<talkpage id="4216335" title="User talk:Cordiezlaw">
==Welcome==
Hello, '''{{PAGENAME}}''', and [[Wikipedia:Welcome, newcomers|welcome]] to Wikipedia. Thank you for [[Special:Contributions/{{PAGENAME}}|your contributions]]. I hope you like the place and decide to stay. If you are stuck, and looking for help, please come to the '''[[Wikipedia:Boot Camp|Wikipedia Boot Camp]]''', where experienced Wikipedians can answer any queries you have! Or, you can just type '''&lt;code&gt;{&amp;#123;helpme}}&lt;/code&gt;''' on your user page, and someone will show up shortly to answer your questions. Here are a few good links for newcomers: 
*[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The Five Pillars of Wikipedia]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]]
*[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Editing tutorial]]
*[[Wikipedia:Picture tutorial|Picture tutorial]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to write a great article|How to write a great article]]
*[[Wikipedia:Naming conventions|Naming conventions]]
*[[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]] 
I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! By the way, you can sign your name on Talk and vote pages using three tildes, like this: &amp;#126;&amp;#126;&amp;#126;. Four tildes (&amp;#126;&amp;#126;&amp;#126;&amp;#126;) produces your name and the current date. If you have any questions, see the [[Wikipedia:Help|help pages]], add a question to the [[Wikipedia:village pump|village pump]] or ask me on &lt;!-- [[{{ns:3}}:kukini|my Talk page]] (broken) --&gt; my talk page. Again, welcome! [[User:Kukini|Kukini]] 15:16, 27 February 2006 (UTC)

*Just a reminder...any information about '''you''' goes on your User Page only! [[User:Kukini|Kukini]] 15:16, 27 February 2006 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>