<article id="1955506" title=Talk:Groom of the Stool>
	<talkpage id="1955506" title="Talk:Groom of the Stool">
{{WikiProject England|class=C|importance=low}}
{{WikiProject English Royalty|class=C|importance=}}
I believe this is actually true and therefore shouldn't be deleted

There is something beautifully ironic about the phrase (in this contest) &quot;To meet Wikipedia's quality standards, this article or section may require ''cleanup''&quot;

== Groom of the Stole ==
Was this actually a position distinct from [[Groom of the Stole]], or shou;d the two articles be merged? [[User:TheMadBaron|TheMadBaron]] 19:05, 18 September 2006 (UTC)
:It was the same office and yes, the articles need to be merged. [[User:Craigy144|Craigy]] ([[User_talk:Craigy144|talk]]) 01:17, 13 December 2006 (UTC)
:::I second the motion, however the [[Groom of the Stole]] has some tone and style issues that need to be taken care of before merging (or, perhaps dealt with during the merger) [[User:Petropetro|Petropetro]] ([[User talk:Petropetro|talk]]) 22:59, 14 January 2012 (UTC)
:::Done. By ME. [[Special:Contributions/122.109.129.187|122.109.129.187]] ([[User talk:122.109.129.187|talk]]) 12:36, 2 November 2014 (UTC)

==Sources==
Is there a more intellectually respected reference than the sun's website that someone could use?- Ben
:Probably yes. But as this article discusses royal rectums from which the sun doth shine, that particular website is quaintly appropriate. [[Special:Contributions/122.109.129.187|122.109.129.187]] ([[User talk:122.109.129.187|talk]]) 12:36, 2 November 2014 (UTC)

== Cleaning your buttocks ==

Do you 'clean your buttocks' after a stool? This is euphemistic nonsense. It is your [[anus]] that you wipe, and presumably the anatomy is no different when the job is done for early modern monarchs by some 'colourless functionary'. --[[User:OhNoPeedyPeebles|OhNoPeedyPeebles]] ([[User talk:OhNoPeedyPeebles|talk]]) 20:46, 11 December 2008 (UTC)
:Only if proceedings have gone sadly awry. I agree euphemism should be avoided.
[[User:Qemist|Qemist]] ([[User talk:Qemist|talk]]) 00:36, 23 May 2014 (UTC)

== Gentlemen of the Privy Chamber ==

I've removed the reference to Victoria's Gentleman of the Privy Chamber because it didn't say he was Groom of the Stool (or Stole). All Grooms of the Stool were Gentlemen of the PC but not all Gentlemen of the PC were Grooms of the Stool. With best wishes, --[[User:OhNoPeedyPeebles|OhNoPeedyPeebles]] ([[User talk:OhNoPeedyPeebles|talk]]) 14:46, 7 July 2009 (UTC)

Ok as someone who came to this page to find out about &quot;The Groom of the Stool&quot; that little bit of info is actually very relevant as I would have no idea there even was a gentleman of the privy chamber - something that seems intrinsically linked. [[User:Zarniewoop|Zarniewoop]] ([[User talk:Zarniewoop|talk]]) 03:37, 5 October 2009 (UTC)

== Article doesn't actually explain what the Groom of the Stool did ==
The current version of the article doesn't really explain what what the Groom of the Stool's namesake role comes from... [[Special:Contributions/38.104.178.30|38.104.178.30]] ([[User talk:38.104.178.30|talk]]) 14:45, 17 September 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>