<article id="39546421" title=Talk:Sego (diet drink)>
	<talkpage id="39546421" title="Talk:Sego (diet drink)">
{{oldafdfull| date = 20 June 2013 (UTC) | result = '''keep''' | page = Sego (diet drink) }}

{{WikiProject Food and drink |class= |importance=}}

== Proposed deletion ==

I am objecting to the proposed deletion, and therefore removing the template.

Although I have never heard of the product (I am only here because I fixed a spelling), it is exactly the sort of article I would expect to find on Wikipedia. Someone might be reminiscing, remember a product called Sego, and here it is on Wikipedia. The article itself contains useful social information, describing a moment in the history of dieting. 

The final reason is that the proposed deletion states &quot;lacks significant coverage&quot;. I would question what coverage would be expected from a product that was selling in the sixties? Has the person who made this statement checked newspapers and magazines of the era or was just relying on an Internet search?  Having said that, my quick search discovered Sego memorabilia for sale on Ebay.  [[User:Periglio|Periglio]] ([[User talk:Periglio|talk]]) 18:43, 19 June 2013 (UTC)

: A deletion discussion has been opened on this article.  Unfortunately &quot;[[WP:USEFUL|usefulness]]&quot; of an article is not a strong argument to make in a deletion discussion.--[[User:RadioFan|RadioFan]] ([[User talk:RadioFan|talk]]) 03:15, 20 June 2013 (UTC)

:: You picked up on a poorly chosen adjective but ignored the stronger points I made? [[User:Periglio|Periglio]] ([[User talk:Periglio|talk]]) 05:43, 20 June 2013 (UTC)

== Image (2014) ==

As the Community wisely decided to not delete the article, [[User:842U|842U]], I have to ask how do we find a suitable image for the article? And if someone bought some Sego merchandise via Amazon and then took a picture of it that they licensed appropriately, would that be a suitable image? [[User:Jdanek007|&lt;font color=&quot;DeepPink&quot;&gt;'''J'''&lt;/font&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;Black&quot;&gt;'''Danek'''&lt;/font&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;DeepPink&quot;&gt;'''00'''&lt;/font&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;Black&quot;&gt;'''7'''&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;sup&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;DeepPink&quot;&gt;[[User talk:Jdanek007|''Talk'']]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/sup&gt; 18:59, 2 April 2014 (UTC)

::The key words being &quot;licensed appropriately.  When you add a file, the process walks you through the requirements.  I don't think it would be a problem with what you are describing, particularly since the product has been out of production for so long, would not be readily accessible elsewhere, and would be low resolution. [[User:842U|842U]] ([[User talk:842U|talk]]) 20:03, 2 April 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>