<article id="13550905" title=Talk:Ground granulated blast-furnace slag>
	<talkpage id="13550905" title="Talk:Ground granulated blast-furnace slag">
{{WikiProject Glass|class=c|importance=mid}}
{{WikiProject Engineering|class=stub|importance=Lowimagedetailsunref=}}

==Question==
WHICH ARE MAIN SUPPLER OF gbbs cements in india/

Does anyone know of a supplier of concrete blocks made from GGBS?

In the UK there are many manufacturers using GGBS in concrete blocks replacing cement in varying proportions, these include -

Marshalls, Hanson, Plasmor, Bison, Stocks Bros.

GGBS can also be supplied in Readymix Concrete from many sources including Hanson, Tarmac, Lafarge, Aggregate Industries (Bardon Concrete, Cemex, C&amp;G Concrete, Smiths and many more independent outlets, if you ask the concrete supplier to supply a CEM111 concrete it will contain GGBS.

== What controversy? ==
The controversy section appears to be e-graffiti. What gives?  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/98.23.48.164|98.23.48.164]] ([[User talk:98.23.48.164|talk]]) 20:22, 21 November 2009 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Needs copyediting to reduce redundancy ==

I'm in the process of wikifying/copyediting this article, but I'm running across information in it repeated two and three times. Since I don't know much about the subject matter, I'm not sure which copy of the repeated information to keep (except for a couple of places where I felt sufficiently confident). Someone needs to rewrite parts of this article to streamline, and better organize, the information. I've left some HTML comments in the source to (perhaps) aid future editors. - [[User:Dcljr|dcljr]] &lt;small&gt;([[User talk:Dcljr|talk]])&lt;/small&gt; 18:52, 19 June 2008 (UTC)

:Please assist in rewriting this article, which has multiple issues. '''[[User:Enigmaman|&lt;font color=&quot;blue&quot;&gt;Enigma&lt;/font&gt;]]''' ''[[User talk:Enigmaman|&lt;b&gt;&lt;sup&gt;message&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;/b&gt;]]'' 03:39, 28 September 2008 (UTC)

== the hyphen between the first two words ==

Note that &quot;ground&quot; doesn't modify &quot;granulated&quot;. Both adjectives modify the word &quot;slag&quot;. So, they shouldn't carry a hyphen because it changes the meaning. See:

&quot;''Although portland blast furnace slag cement, which is made by intergrinding the '''granulated slag''' with portland cement clinker (blended cement), has been used for more than 60 years, the use of separately '''ground slag''' combined with portland cement''[http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/infrastructure/materialsgrp/ggbfs.htm]

[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=User_talk:Tony1&amp;oldid=455197797#Ground_granulated_blast-furnace_slag Here] there is some discussion. --[[User:Enric Naval|Enric Naval]] ([[User talk:Enric Naval|talk]]) 19:07, 19 October 2011 (UTC)
:Ah, I see, I think. Some of the literature has got this wrong, then. [[User:Tony1|&lt;span style=&quot;text-shadow:#BBBBBB 0.1em 0.1em 0.1em; class=texhtml&quot;&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;darkgreen&quot;&gt;'''Tony'''&lt;/font &gt;]] [[User talk:Tony1|&lt;font color=&quot;darkgreen&quot;&gt;(talk)&lt;/font &gt;&lt;/span&gt;]] 05:11, 20 October 2011 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>