<article id="18294315" title=Talk:International Time Capsule Society>
	<talkpage id="18294315" title="Talk:International Time Capsule Society">
{{dyktalk|5 July|2008|entry=... that one of the founders of the '''[[International Time Capsule Society]]''' estimated that over 80&amp;nbsp;percent of [[time capsule]]s will be lost before they are opened?|views=1908}}

Lost? Lost by whom? Some time capsules are dug up and opened for reunion purposes. Then 20 years later someone looks for it and
it can't be found. Does that mean it is lost? It is only lost in the eyes of the one looking for it.--[[User:Ourhistory153|Ourhistory153]] ([[User talk:Ourhistory153|talk]]) 16:51, 29 July 2012 (UTC)

== Communicating with ITCS? ==

How does one communicate with this society? I would like to know where the data
they are collecting goes. They have a form at their website, so is this information
from this form available? There has been no discussion for this group since 2011, I look
forward to hearing from someone soon. BTW see my listing building at the Time Capsule
list article.--[[User:Ourhistory153|Ourhistory153]] ([[User talk:Ourhistory153|talk]]) 13:42, 11 July 2012 (UTC)

== Dead links and references ==

This source and reference is a dead link affordabletimecapsule.com
It may need to be removed. Can we have some discussion on this?--[[User:Ourhistory153|Ourhistory153]] ([[User talk:Ourhistory153|talk]]) 13:05, 13 July 2012 (UTC)


Is the International Time Capsule lost in time? There hasn't been any comments from any of their editors for several years. Some of their
founders are around but have they lost interest? Have they past the baton to new members? Inquiring minds can only ask?--[[User:Ourhistory153|Ourhistory153]] ([[User talk:Ourhistory153|talk]]) 16:51, 29 July 2012 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>