<article id="9695725" title=Talk:Carmel School, Perth>
	<talkpage id="9695725" title="Talk:Carmel School, Perth">
{{WP Australia|WA=yes|WA-importance=low|Perth=yes|class=stub|importance=low|edu=yes|edu-importance=low}}
{{WPSchools|class=Stub|importance=|needs-infobox=no}}

==Discussion==
An editor might want to stop this page being vandalised
&lt;br /&gt;

I am very familiar with Carmel School but i don't know what sorts of things to write about it.--[[User:144.137.239.84|144.137.239.84]] 05:29, 24 May 2007 (UTC)

:One thing to remember when editing school article is to keep the facts encyclopaedic.  Think about what you might expect to see in a paper dictionary.  History is always a good start, and a description of any unusual features or activities will generally be OK.  Have a read of some school articles which have been assessed as 'good' for ideas; such as [[Scotch College, Perth]].  You must only include facts which can be verified by [[WP:RS|reliable third party sources]].  If you need any advice, just ask. 

:Its best to create an account if you intend to edit regularly as it makes communication with other editors so much easier.  Its easy and fast.  See [[Wikipedia:Why create an account?]] &amp;mdash;[[User talk:Moondyne|''Moondyne'']] 08:22, 24 May 2007 (UTC)

I actually go to Carmel but I'm also a bit iffy about what to put in.--[[User:Coin945|Coin945]] 11:06, 23 August 2007 (UTC)

P.S, I am [[User:144.137.239.84|144.137.239.84]]. That was before i made an account. --[[User:Coin945|Coin945]] 15:10, 23 August 2007 (UTC)

== Things to Add ==

Would '''Sababa''', a school band set up at the beginning of 2006 or Neil Rabiowitz, winner of the Beazley Medal [http://members.iinet.net.au/~elirab/family/2000neil.html] be worth including?--[[User:Coin945|Coin945]] 09:21, 28 August 2007 (UTC)
:The band, definately not (unless its won some awards), the beazley medal by itself is notable, but not the person who won it. Mentioning that the school has a Beazley medal winner (in context) is fine. [[User:Twenty Years|Twenty]] [[User talk:Twenty Years|Years]] 11:51, 28 August 2007 (UTC)

==Carmel School links==
* [http://www.carmel.wa.edu.au/index.php/home Carmel School home page]
* [http://www.jwire.com.au/?page_id=1108 Carmel School at J-Wire]
* [http://www.jewgleperth.com/?p=109 Carmel School at Jewgle Perth]
* [http://www.des.wa.gov.au/Legislative_Review/submissions/Submission%20-%2000002%20-%20Carmel%20School%20-%2024%20March%202009.pdf]{{Dead link|date=August 2011}}
* [http://chareidi.shemayisrael.com/archives/PKaperth.htm]{{Dead link|date=August 2011}}
* [http://www.jewishtimesasia.org/australia-topmenu-71/256-perth-communities/936-jewish-community-of-perth-australia The Jewish Community of Perth, Australia]
* [http://www.seek.com.au/AdvHomes/carmel731/21045577_1.htm.profile Seek page on Carmel School]
* [http://books.google.com/books?id=ydeWV9JjfHQC&amp;pg=PA609&amp;dq=carmel+school+perth+principles&amp;hl=en&amp;ei=zNCmTZqyM4iIuAPgjoH_CQ&amp;sa=X&amp;oi=book_result&amp;ct=result&amp;resnum=1&amp;ved=0CDMQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&amp;q=carmel%20school%20perth%20principles&amp;f=false Mention in APAIS 1992: Australian public affairs information service]
* [http://kaprevtoo.ibsglobalweb.com/views/list_of_providers_gui/30404?page=1 Details in Kosher Goods - Cafes, Restaurants &amp; Take-away]
* [http://www.maven.co.il/subjects/175/1/2/ Details in MavenSearch]
* [http://janabuvari.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/10/Music-Education-Study-Report-Carmel-School-2008-Jana-Buvari.pdf Music Education Study Report for Carmel School]
* [http://www.jnf.org.au/News/40/Dr-Yossi-Leshems-visit-to-Perth.cfm?group=WA#id=News_40&amp;num=image_472 Dr Yossi Leshem's visit to Carmel]
* [http://www.educationaust.com.au/listing.php?id=778 EducationAust entry on Carmel School]
* [http://www.jewishaustralia.com/schools.htm Mention in Jewish schools in Australia]
* [http://blogindm.blogspot.com/2006/08/haredi-triumphalism-in-perth-updated.html Haredi Triumphalism in Perth - Updated]
* [http://books.google.com/books?id=SiqbKBBOpCQC&amp;pg=PA388&amp;lpg=PA388&amp;dq=carmel+school+perth+jewish&amp;source=bl&amp;ots=sK0oCUuhNE&amp;sig=vbf5YHto0WnlEoHmyVur4q5IAhI&amp;hl=en&amp;ei=eNamTcvgPISGvgOn2ICQCg&amp;sa=X&amp;oi=book_result&amp;ct=result&amp;resnum=6&amp;ved=0CDYQ6AEwBTge#v=onepage&amp;q=carmel%20school%20perth%20jewish&amp;f=false]
* [http://www.jewgleperth.com/?p=179 Reports from The 3rd Annual Jewish Community Conference]
* [http://www.carmel.wa.edu.au/UserFiles/File/Secondary%20Education%20at%20Carmel%20School.pdf Secondary Education at Carmel School]
* [http://www.springerlink.com/content/jg78042463q77553/ Australia: The Jewel in the Crown of Jewish Education]
* [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=69ptAAAAMAAJ&amp;q=%22carmel+school%22+perth&amp;dq=%22carmel+school%22+perth&amp;source=bl&amp;ots=gp4MswVDKv&amp;sig=YSdZliKiYl5Tl0wqM3EKZN-ynIo&amp;hl=en&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=399iUJTyKpHwmAX-wIG4Aw&amp;ved=0CFkQ6AEwCTgK Holocaust remembrance in Australian Jewish communities, 1945-2000]
* [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=CesRAAAAIAAJ&amp;q=%22carmel+school%22+perth&amp;dq=%22carmel+school%22+perth&amp;source=bl&amp;ots=_JC_4LrzX6&amp;sig=U7TdbPntYQyhkiZyl80pdpCmQP8&amp;hl=en&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=-N9iUMfIE8-fmQWIzICwCg&amp;ved=0CDQQ6AEwATgU 1962 report on Carmel School]
* [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=CpxtAAAAMAAJ&amp;q=%22carmel+school%22+perth&amp;dq=%22carmel+school%22+perth&amp;source=bl&amp;ots=qO6158ZKXH&amp;sig=c3Bsst7HyZzjdWknFq4475ioxcM&amp;hl=en&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=-N9iUMfIE8-fmQWIzICwCg&amp;ved=0CEIQ6AEwBDgU The Jewish year book - 1972]
* [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=KHsHAQAAIAAJ&amp;q=%22carmel+school%22+perth&amp;dq=%22carmel+school%22+perth&amp;source=bl&amp;ots=eymVsTsgVZ&amp;sig=3h7d0QDAg5Vj-HtI7HUVxntoPwk&amp;hl=en&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=-N9iUMfIE8-fmQWIzICwCg&amp;ved=0CFIQ6AEwBzgU Parliamentary Papers - 1974]
* [http://books.google.com.au/books?id=YBtKAAAAYAAJ&amp;q=%22carmel+school%22+perth&amp;dq=%22carmel+school%22+perth&amp;source=bl&amp;ots=Jze9X93QRh&amp;sig=ich9ZYZLfp2KRMttTLPgodxQt70&amp;hl=en&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=deNiUNW4OoWkigeSloGgBA&amp;ved=0CE0Q6AEwBjge History of education review, Volumes 27-28]
	</talkpage>
</article>