<article id="3807268" title=User talk:70.185.146.37>
	<talkpage id="3807268" title="User talk:70.185.146.37">
Thanks for experimenting with Wikipedia. Your test worked, and has been reverted or removed. Please use [[Wikipedia:Sandbox|the sandbox]] for any other tests you want to do. Take a look at the [[Wikipedia:Welcome, newcomers|welcome page]] if you would like to learn more about contributing to our encyclopedia. Thanks. &lt;!-- from Template:Test --&gt;  [[User:CambridgeBayWeather|CambridgeBayWeather]] [[User_talk:CambridgeBayWeather|(Talk)]] 10:00, 22 January 2006 (UTC)

== Tampering With Lubbock High's Article ==

Thanks alot for your unwanted tampering. The student body president's approval was recieved for the tribute to William &quot;Buffalo Bill&quot; Meadors. This man (Meadors) has dedicated his ENTIRE life to serving Lubbock High School. I am outraged that you would offer your &quot;help.&quot; We don't need any interference from Houstonians. Edit J. Frank Dobie's page instead. I will be discussing your actions with the student body president tomorrow. Good day.&lt;small&gt;—This [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|unsigned]] comment was added by [[User:70.185.146.37|70.185.146.37]] ([[User talk:70.185.146.37|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/70.185.146.37|contribs]]) {{{2|}}}.&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- [Template:Unsigned] --&gt;
:Thanks for your comments.  But what are you talking about?  First, the student body president of Lubbock High has no control over my actions, but thanks for pointing out that he/she approved the tribute.  Second, I know who Meadors is; but is he really an alumnus of Lubbock High?  He's a nice enough guy, but if he didn't go to school there, he shouldn't be listed as an alum.  If he did, then including him is fine.  Third, what &quot;offer of 'help'&quot; are you talking about?  If you had looked at [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Lubbock_High_School&amp;action=history the article's history], you'd notice that I wrote the majority of that article, so I don't know what you mean about &quot;interference.&quot;  Fourth, as for being a Houstonian, if you had bothered to look at [[User:Myleslong|my user page]], you'd notice that I'm from Lubbock and that I graduated from Lubbock High.  I know nothing about J. Frank Dobie; why would I edit that page?  Lastly, I'm dying to hear what the student body president had to say about my actions.  --[[User:Myleslong|Myles Long]] 20:16, 24 March 2006 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>