<article id="6941309" title=Talk:Anterior chain>
	<talkpage id="6941309" title="Talk:Anterior chain">
Searching Google, I see very little reference to the &quot;anterior chain&quot; as it is used in the context of this article and no reference to it on reputable sources in those search results.  The posterior chain involves the calves, hamstrings, glutes, and lower back.  Therefore, as an antagonist, shouldn't the anterior chain involve the quadriceps, glutes, and abdominal muscles?  The biceps, chest, obliques, and serratus anterior should not be listed. This article needs an expert's attention. — [[User:24.166.65.230|24.166.65.230]] 06:14, 11 September 2006 (UTC)

----

&quot;''Often, these muscles are not emphasized by power lifters who aim exclusively to increase their maximal strength in the squat, deadlift, and bench press, or by athletes who seek to increase physical performance, but rather by those who train to look good.''&quot;

This is a dubious statement.  Squatting, deadlifting, and bench pressing will adequately develop all the muscles of the anterior chain with the possible exception of the biceps.  While the abs, obliques, serratus anterior, and biceps may not receive direct emphasis, it is impossible to say this in regards to the chest and quads.

&quot;Anterior chain&quot; is also a misnomer because the aforementioned muscle groups do not work in concert with each other.  The posterior chain, for example, is a &quot;chain&quot; because all the muscles contribute to generate force during a jumping-type motion. -- [[User:Chicanerous|Chicanerous]] 11:12, 2 August 2007 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>