<article id="36150390" title=Talk:Demak Sultanate>
	<talkpage id="36150390" title="Talk:Demak Sultanate">
{{WikiProject Indonesia|class=stub|importance=low}}
{{WikiProject Former countries|class=}}

==bits and pieces==
hi, please help me. i'm a newcomer and i want to revert the title of 'Sultanate of Demak' to every link mentioning 'Kingdom of Demak'. thx
[[User:Tasfan|Tasfan]]
:Done. [[User:Melchoir|Melchoir]] 04:41, 1 March 2006 (UTC)
There are some views that the rulers of Demak as well as some of the so-called 'walisongo' were actually of Chinese descendants as an Indonesian historian pointed out in the 70s. However, these views are undermined by Indonesian goverment as Chiense in Indonesia is a very sensitive issue. I wonder if someone can give me some light about this.&lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:202.47.70.77|202.47.70.77]] ([[User talk:202.47.70.77|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/202.47.70.77|contribs]]) &lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt;

== In need of... ==

To the historians of Demak, we need the complete profile and citation of:
1. [Raden Patah]
2. [Pati Unus]
3. [Trenggana]
4. [Wali Songo]
5. [Sekar Seda Lepen]
6. [Prawoto]
7. [Arya Penangsang]
8. [Jaka Tingkir]
thank you for your support[[User:Tasfan|Tasfan]] 08:17, 1 March 2006 (UTC)

Currently updating #4 but #1 lacks a WP entirely. Plenty on him in the Indonesian-language WP. Can someone create a page for Raden Patah with reliable sources referenced? [[User:Martindo|Martindo]] ([[User talk:Martindo|talk]]) 00:36, 27 July 2009 (UTC)

== wali songo are not prophets ==

The Wali Songo were not prophets. They were just clergy. As to say Wali Songo were prophet is totally wrong because muslim believes that the last prophet is Muhammad. Moreover, ''Wali'' means clergy. [[User:Pejuang bahasa|Pejuang bahasa]] 07:17, 5 June 2007 (UTC)

== conflict with indonesian article ==

The portion about the Raden Patah is contradicted with Indonesian Demak wikipedia article. According to the article, Raden Patah was a son of Brawijaya and Champa princes. But in this article, it's chinese princes. Altough, Brawijaya had a second wife and she was a chinese. Please review it. [[User:Pejuang bahasa|Pejuang bahasa]] 07:27, 5 June 2007 (UTC)

:Quite possible, since his supposed Chinese name Chek Ko Po sounds like he's descended from Champa royalty, who is known to use the title &quot;Che&quot; in their names.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/58.71.170.249|58.71.170.249]] ([[User talk:58.71.170.249|talk]]) 09:50, 14 February 2013 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

==Unreadable==
Raden Patah apper ans is not quoeted before, anyone can know who is it. Trenggana is quoted as having two reigns, that is wrong (the firts must be in fact the reign of Raden Patah). --[[Special:Contributions/83.61.141.186|83.61.141.186]] ([[User talk:83.61.141.186|talk]]) 08:46, 20 July 2009 (UTC)

== October 2013 ==
who the hell the idiot that makes the demak page blank and unreadable? &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—&amp;nbsp;Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:G1335ja|G1335ja]] ([[User talk:G1335ja|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/G1335ja|contribs]]) 08:32, 11 October 2013&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt;
:Hello [[User:G1335ja|G1335ja]] and welcome to Wikipedia.  You'll find that here, as elsewhere, you catch more flies with honey than vinegar. —[[User:Psychonaut|Psychonaut]] ([[User talk:Psychonaut|talk]]) 10:31, 11 October 2013 (UTC)
I didn't know that the game was to catch flies. I thought it is to provide knowledge. It is unforgivable to blank a whole article. Why couldn't the person claiming copyright abuse just revert to an earlier version, at least for the lead?[[User:Martindo|Martindo]] ([[User talk:Martindo|talk]]) 08:58, 28 October 2013 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>