<article id="3855071" title=Talk:Harold & Kumar Escape from Guantanamo Bay>
	<talkpage id="3855071" title="Talk:Harold & Kumar Escape from Guantanamo Bay">
{{WikiProject Film|class=Start|American-task-force=yes|B-Class-1=no|B-Class-2=no|B-Class-3=yes|B-Class-4=yes|B-Class-5=yes}}

== Movie not titled &quot;Harold &amp; Kumar go to Amsterdam&quot; ==

Just wanted to make a note because it's been stated in several places, by both stars of the film, that the title is not &quot;... go to Amsterdam&quot;. One example is [http://www.tailslate.net/articles/index.asp?ID=102&amp;lst=n&amp;dpt=articles here].


== &quot;... End up in Gitmo&quot; title ==

The [http://www.mtv.com/movies/news/articles/1560003/20070518/story.jhtml MTV source cited] doesn't seem to support the change in this article's title from ''Untitled Harold &amp; Kumar Sequel'' to ''Harold &amp; Kumar End Up in Gitmo''.  Should the title change be reverted?  Is there another source that is more explicit about how the movie will ultimately be titled? — [[User:Hiplibrarianship|Hiplibrarianship]] 05:56, 12 June 2007 (UTC)

:'''Update:''' Writer/director Hayden Schlossberg occasionally posts to the IMDb discussion board under the screename ''hpschlos'': in a 7 June message he [http://us.imdb.com/title/tt0481536/board/nest/76317735 denied the &quot;Gitmo&quot; title], and [http://us.imdb.com/title/tt0481536/board/nest/76543552 provided the &quot;High Alert&quot; title on 13 June].  — [[User:Hiplibrarianship|Hiplibrarianship]] 05:34, 6 July 2007 (UTC)

==Release Date==
The release date is Feburary 8, both the refrences there say it is so don't change it back to april 4!  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/68.9.145.225|68.9.145.225]] ([[User talk:68.9.145.225|talk]]) 19:23, 27 October 2007 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
: Various sources now confirm the 25 April release date, including IMDb postings from directors [http://www.imdb.com/user/ur16459644/boards/profile/ Hurwitz] and [http://www.imdb.com/user/ur0732960/boards/profile/ Schlossberg]. — [[User:Hiplibrarianship|Hiplibrarianship]] ([[User talk:Hiplibrarianship|talk]]) 04:43, 7 January 2008 (UTC)


'''Australia''' - Hey guys, just added the release date for Australia, I myself wanted to know, so i turned to the awesomeness of wiki and found to my shock that it wasn't here. So i scouted around and found it, so i think i should put the sources here:

http://www.greaterunion.com.au/movies/6892/Harold-And-Kumar-Escape-From-Guantanomo.htm
http://www.yourmovies.com.au/movies/?action=movie_info&amp;title_id=35481
http://www.webwombat.com.au/entertainment/movies/harold-kumar-guantanamo-bay.htm

[[User:Bbglas007|~ bbglas007]] ([[User talk:Bbglas007|talk]]) 11:27, 10 August 2008 (UTC) ~Peace

==What Happened?==
This article was full last time I saw it, now it has nothing???  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/68.9.145.225|68.9.145.225]] ([[User talk:68.9.145.225|talk]]) 17:28, 28 October 2007 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

probably cos the article used to be about Amsterdam and now its bout Guantanamo bay, just guessin'...  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/86.156.171.9|86.156.171.9]] ([[User talk:86.156.171.9|talk]]) 10:59, 29 October 2007 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

==Bias?==
As much as I loved the first movie (and i'm sure this one will be fucking incredible), it seems like there are only positive reviews. Maybe there aren't many negative reviews, and the critics certainly seem to like it, but there has to be one. Also, the format of the reviews' placement in this article isn't very formal. Could we rewrite it in some way? --[[User:Geoguy91|George The Man]] ([[User talk:Geoguy91|talk]]) 20:17, 21 March 2008 (UTC)
:I removed the UGO and CinemaBlend blurbs to make it so the reception section doesn't give undue weight to the positive reviews. Some [http://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/harold_and_kumar_2/ negative] reviews could be added to reflect that the film got mixed reviews overall. --[[User:Pixelface|Pixelface]] ([[User talk:Pixelface|talk]]) 09:12, 25 April 2008 (UTC)

== Should the 'Plot' be removed? ==

I don't know about you guys, but shouldn't the plot be removed? I mean, we don't even have a source for it. [[User:Ruthless Xero|Ruthless Xero]] ([[User talk:Ruthless Xero|talk]]) 04:19, 31 March 2008 (UTC)

Well after seeing the various trailers of it...guessing Mr. Spock ^^ [[Special:Contributions/87.185.123.122|87.185.123.122]] ([[User talk:87.185.123.122|talk]]) 20:06, 4 April 2008 (UTC)

Nah, leave the plot.  It's correct, and we aren't likely to find such a good review anytime soon.  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/67.167.188.19|67.167.188.19]] ([[User talk:67.167.188.19|talk]]) 06:33, 27 April 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== budget ==

Where's a source for that budget? This movie looks even bigger than the first and the first movie's budget was $9M. I'd estimate more like six-''teen'' million dollars.[[User:ChesterG|ChesterG]] ([[User talk:ChesterG|talk]]) 03:59, 18 April 2008 (UTC)

== Rosenberg and Goldstein. ==

Can any source confirm that their given names are &quot;Manny&quot; and &quot;Chevitz&quot;? I believe it is a mere referential joke about their Jewish ancestry ([[Manischewitz#Wine|Manischewitz]] being an iconic Jewish wine). --[[User:MagnoliaFen|~Magnolia Fen]] ([[User talk:MagnoliaFen|talk]]) 00:40, 27 June 2008 (UTC)

== Sequel ==

I have only read that they plan on making it, if they can get the funds to do so. Nowhere have I read that it's been greenlighted, and currently in production. 
 
They confirmed it on Comic Con and G4's The Feed  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/71.175.138.232|71.175.138.232]] ([[User talk:71.175.138.232|talk]]) 01:30, 27 July 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:Could you provide a link to the place where they confirmed it? &lt;span style=&quot;padding-left:2px;padding-right:2px;background-color:#f5faff;border:#cedff2 1px solid&quot;&gt;[[User:Artichoker|Artichoker]]'''&lt;nowiki&gt;[&lt;/nowiki&gt;'''[[User talk:Artichoker|talk]]'''&lt;nowiki&gt;]&lt;/nowiki&gt;'''&lt;/span&gt; 03:03, 27 July 2008 (UTC)

Is this still going to happen now that Kal Penn will be working for the Obama administration? [[User:BobTheMad|BobTheMad]] 01:35, 20 April 2009 (UTC)

== Whiplash ==

When does the song play in the movie? I'm not arguing it or anything just curious. Is it at the KKK bonfire? [[User:Disturbedfan24|Disturbedfan24]] ([[User talk:Disturbedfan24|talk]]) 02:06, 23 August 2008 (UTC)

==Plot details==

I couldn't help but notice that a lot of the plot details are missing... like that cock sandwhich.... 

[[User:Elbutler|Elbutler]] ([[User talk:Elbutler|talk]]) 16:57, 8 September 2008 (UTC)
:The cockmeat sandwich does not influence the plot at all, and was simply a gag. Wikipedia doesn't need to mention every single detail that happened in a movie. &lt;span style=&quot;padding-left:2px;padding-right:2px;background-color:#f5faff;border:#cedff2 1px solid&quot;&gt;[[User:Artichoker|Artichoker]]'''&lt;nowiki&gt;[&lt;/nowiki&gt;'''[[User talk:Artichoker|talk]]'''&lt;nowiki&gt;]&lt;/nowiki&gt;'''&lt;/span&gt; 21:34, 8 September 2008 (UTC)

No, but seriously... there is a lot missing. Like the whole trip of them to Texas. Then when Neil Patrick Harris arrives, then later dies. Nothing is even mentioned about the idiot security agent... etc, etc.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/76.11.104.83|76.11.104.83]] ([[User talk:76.11.104.83|talk]]) 04:46, 2 January 2009 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
 
This is a small note, but when Harold and Kumar are in Neil Patrick Harris's car, and they are looking through his bag, they find a slipknot mask for Chris Fehn. why isn't that mentioned?  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/70.20.72.172|70.20.72.172]] ([[User talk:70.20.72.172|talk]]) 00:57, 31 March 2010 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== REQUEST ==

Semi-protection? [[User:Wilkos|Wilkos]] ([[User talk:Wilkos|talk]]) 19:50, 15 November 2008 (UTC)
:*Nah, just get the vandal blocked. [[User:Dp76764|&lt;font color=&quot;#FF0000&quot;&gt;DP&lt;/font&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;#0000FF&quot;&gt;76764&lt;/font&gt;]] 20:07, 15 November 2008 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>