<article id="18450987" title=User talk:Btharper1221/Glendora curve>
	<talkpage id="18450987" title="User talk:Btharper1221/Glendora curve">
While watching recent changes I saw a redirect by an IP and reverted fairly quickly by reflex, the article seemed well established and of normal stub notability.  After reverting it was returned to the redirect and told not to blindly revert IPs.  I looked at it more while my fellow editors also went to revert the redirect on the same premise I assume as myself.  The editor had not posted anything on the relevant talk page and only talked with himself (I assume male as per the nick) believing that without references that is was without merit and merged it into a higher article, after a simple google search (&amp;quot;Glendora Curve&amp;quot; -wiki), I found city minutes using the colloquial term and restored the article with this link, and peace was restored; the other [[User:Freewayguy]] even thanked me, a good day for civility on the wiki.

Alternate moral of the story:
*Look for sources to an article before attempting to purge the earth of it.
*Please investigate some before accusing others of failing to do so.
*Edit wars suck.


==Please be more careful==
[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Glendora_Curve&amp;diff=prev&amp;oldid=225803939 This] was not vandalism, as you would have seen if you had investigated in the slightest rather than making assumptions about an IP editor. Please be more careful in future. Thank you. [[Special:Contributions/91.85.188.90|91.85.188.90]] ([[User talk:91.85.188.90|talk]]) 14:10, 15 July 2008 (UTC)

I want to keep Glendora Curve merge. I don't see any other names use on google besdies LA-Orange County group chats. 75.47. keeps playing [[WP:GAMES|games with me]].--[[User:Freewayguy|&lt;font color=&quot;darkred&quot;&gt;Freewayguy&lt;/font&gt;]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:Freewayguy|Call?]] [[Special:Contributions/Freewayguy|Fish]]&lt;/sup&gt; 17:21, 15 July 2008 (UTC)
:While your reference to the games wikiproject page is an impressive display of your knowledge of wikipedia policy, as well as going against the good faith of wikipedia's policies in a fashion similar to [[WP:GAME|Gaming the system]] as I believe was the accusation you were attempting to bring up.  The article merge is debated and has had no discussion aside from reverts between the article and the relevant redirects, and as such should be discussed on the relevant page's [[Talk:Glendora Curve|talk page]] and as such I will try to move these separate discussions onto the talk page.[[User:Btharper1221|Ben]] ([[User talk:Btharper1221#top|talk]]) 17:35, 15 July 2008 (UTC)

&lt;!-- Please do not edit this page --&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>