<article id="19908543" title=User talk:Kurialex>
	<talkpage id="19908543" title="User talk:Kurialex">
'''Welcome!'''

Hello, {{BASEPAGENAME}}, and [[Wikipedia:Introduction|welcome]] to Wikipedia! Thank you for [[Special:Contributions/{{BASEPAGENAME}}|your contributions]]{{#if:|, especially what you did for [[:{{{art}}}]]}}. I hope you like the place and decide to stay. Here are some pages that you might find helpful:
*[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
*[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]]
*[[Wikipedia:Article development|How to write a great article]]
*[[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]]
I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! Please [[Wikipedia:Signatures|sign]] your messages on [[Wikipedia:talk page|discussion page]]s using four [[tilde]]s (&lt;nowiki&gt;~~~~&lt;/nowiki&gt;); this will automatically insert your username and the date. If you need help, check out [[Wikipedia:Questions]], ask me on {{#if:|[[user talk:{{{1}}}|my talk page]]|my talk page}}, or ask your question on this page and then place &lt;code&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;{{helpme}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;&lt;/code&gt; before the question. Again, welcome! &lt;!-- Template:Welcome --&gt; [[User:Marauder40|Marauder40]] ([[User talk:Marauder40|talk]]) 19:24, 23 October 2008 (UTC)

==Franciscan edits==
So far I have considered your edits to the [[Franciscan]] page as good faith edits, but the history of the Papacy does not fit with this article.  Please stop trying to insert it into the article.  If you really feel it belongs you need to discuss it on the [[Talk:Franciscan]] page.[[User:Marauder40|Marauder40]] ([[User talk:Marauder40|talk]]) 19:21, 23 October 2008 (UTC)

:Additionally, there is a [[History of the Papacy]] article, where your edits may be more on topic. [[User:Gentgeen|Gentgeen]] ([[User talk:Gentgeen|talk]]) 19:37, 23 October 2008 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>