<article id="11083526" title=Talk:Curtis Ebbesmeyer>
	<talkpage id="11083526" title="Talk:Curtis Ebbesmeyer">
{{WikiProject Biography |living=yes |class=Start |listas=Ebbesmeyer, Curtis}}
{{WikiProject United States |class=Start |importance=Low |WA=Yes |WA-importance=Low |Seattle=Yes |Seattle-importance=Low |listas=Ebbesmeyer, Curtis}}

==Book review==
I have just finished Curtis Ebbesmeyer Flotsametrics and was awed by the last chapter in which he reveals that the gyres have harmonics. The eleven world gyres have their own 'tone' created by their time cycles, the speed of which they travel, and bump the adjoining gyre. He says that the fresh water heats the gyres, leading to greater speed and higher waves, which he says is already happening in the N Atlantic and the N Pacific.

My musical education was limited to 101 and leaves me incompetent to comment but Dr Ebbesmeyer says the implication of this is that the lowest tone will be eliminated by the sped up gyre currents. i noted that the gyres were podal/antipodal as most of the land/water on earth are.

I also agree with a previous comment that anyone who reads this book would also ask where is the Beachcomber Alert page which is not the innocuous flippancy its name would indicate.

As to what to make of the water harmonics, please remember that our planet has harmonics and the Schumann Resonances are indicators of this. And that our standing wave is created by these harmonics and allow us to communicate by radio. This 6 Hz harmonic of the Earth has been rising.

Scientists are needed to comment on this valuable information.--[[User:Katesisco|Katesisco]] ([[User talk:Katesisco|talk]]) 16:24, 22 July 2009 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>