<article id="41849843" title=User talk:212.49.136.28>
	<talkpage id="41849843" title="User talk:212.49.136.28">
== Welcome! ==
== Welcome to Wikipedia! ==

Hello, and [[Wikipedia:Introduction|welcome]] to Wikipedia! Thank you for [[Special:Contributions/212.49.136.28|your contributions]]. I hope you like the place and decide to stay. Here are some pages you might like to see:

* [[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
* [[Help:Contents|Help pages]]
* [[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
* [[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]] and [[Wikipedia:Article development|How to develop articles]]
* [[Wikipedia:Simplified Manual of Style|Simplified Manual of Style]]
* [[Help:Wikipedia: The Missing Manual/Introduction|Intuitive guide to Wikipedia]]

You are welcome to continue editing without [[Special:Userlogin|logging in]], but you may want to consider '''&lt;span class=&quot;plainlinks&quot;&gt;[{{fullurl:Special:Userlogin|type=signup&amp;campaign=anonwelcometemplate}} creating an account]&lt;/span&gt;'''. Doing so is free, requires no personal information, and provides several benefits such as the ability to create articles. For a full outline and explanation of the benefits that come with creating an account, please see [[Wikipedia:Why create an account?|this page]]. If you edit without a username, your [[IP address]] (212.49.136.28) is used to identify you instead.

In any case, I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! Please [[Wikipedia:Signatures|sign your comments]] on talk pages using four tildes (&lt;nowiki&gt;~~~~&lt;/nowiki&gt;); this will automatically produce your IP address (or username if you're logged in) and the date. If you need help, check out [[Wikipedia:Questions]], ask me on [[User talk:XLinkBot|my talk page]], or ask your question and then place &lt;code&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;{{&lt;/nowiki&gt;[[:Category:Wikipedians looking for help|helpme]]&lt;nowiki&gt;}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;&lt;/code&gt; before the question on this page. Again, welcome! &lt;!-- Template:welcome-anon --&gt;  --[[User:XLinkBot|XLinkBot]] ([[User talk:XLinkBot|talk]]) 10:57, 5 February 2014 (UTC)
== February 2014 ==
Welcome to Wikipedia. Although everyone is welcome to contribute constructively to the encyclopedia, your addition of one or more external links to the page [[:Swimbait]] has been reverted.&lt;br /&gt;Your edit [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?diff=594029780&amp;oldid=553455380 here] to [[Swimbait]] was reverted by an automated bot that attempts to remove links which are discouraged per our [[WP:EL|external links guideline]].  The external link(s) you added or changed (http://www.swimbaitstyle.blogspot.com.es/&lt;!-- matching the [[regex|regex rule]] \bblog(?:cu|fa|harbor|mybrain|post|savy|spot|townhall)?\.com\b) --&gt;) is/are on my list of links to remove and probably shouldn't be included in Wikipedia. If the external link you inserted or changed was to a [[blog]], [[forum]], [[free web hosting service]], [[fansite]], or similar site (see [[WP:ELNO|'Links to avoid', #11]]), then please check the information on the external site thoroughly. Note that such sites should probably not be linked to if they contain information that is in violation of the creator's [[Wikipedia:COPYRIGHT|copyright]] (see [[Wikipedia:COPYRIGHT#Linking to copyrighted works|Linking to copyrighted works]]), or they are not written by a recognised, [[Wikipedia:Reliable sources|reliable source]]. Linking to sites that you are involved with is also strongly discouraged (see [[Wikipedia:Conflict of interest|conflict of interest]]).&lt;br /&gt;If you were trying to insert an [[Wikipedia:External links|external link]] that does comply with our [[Wikipedia:List of policies|policies]] and [[Wikipedia:List of guidelines|guidelines]], then please accept my creator's apologies and feel free to [[WP:UNDO|undo]] the bot's revert.  However, if the link does not comply with our policies and guidelines, but your edit included other, constructive, changes to the article, feel free to make those changes again without re-adding the link.  Please read Wikipedia's [[WP:EL|external links guideline]] for more information, and consult my [[User:XLinkBot/Reversion reasons|list of frequently-reverted sites]]. For more information about me, see [[User:XLinkBot/FAQ|my FAQ page]]. Thanks! --[[User:XLinkBot|XLinkBot]] ([[User talk:XLinkBot|talk]]) 10:57, 5 February 2014 (UTC)&lt;br /&gt;&lt;small&gt;If this is a shared [[IP address]], and you didn't make the edit, please ignore this notice.&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:uw-spam0 --&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>