<article id="4887971" title=Talk:Chrysler 1.8, 2.0 & 2.4 engine>
	<talkpage id="4887971" title="Talk:Chrysler 1.8, 2.0 & 2.4 engine">
{{WikiProject Automobiles|class=start|importance=low}}
==2.0==

The 2.0 L (1997 cc) version of the Neon engine, was the first offered. '''Production began in 1994''' in Trenton, MI

also stated right below is...
Applications:

Dodge Neon/Plymouth Neon(1995-2000) 
Mitsubishi Eclipse(non-turboSOHC)'''(1990-1994)''' 

made in 94, used in 90?

I dont know about it

No.  It wasn't used in production until 1994 for the 1995 model year.
[[User:Jd physicist|Jd physicist]] 21:08, 9 September 2007 (UTC)

== SBEC vs. NGC engines ==

I think this article might benefit from a discussion of the differences between engine controllers for the engines, as the the engines changed from the SBEC to NGC controllers in 2003, which changed some fundamentals of the engine such as the crank trigger wheel.

I don't have a lot of knowledge on this topic, but I think it would really add to the article. The 1995-2002 and 2003-2005 engines are totally incompatible due to the crank difference. 

neons.org has a lot of information on this topic.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/98.232.177.116|98.232.177.116]] ([[User talk:98.232.177.116|talk]]) 20:51, 29 November 2010 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>