<article id="20172475" title=User talk:Caleb Greer>
	<talkpage id="20172475" title="User talk:Caleb Greer">
When your in love you think its the greatest thing in the world but it isn't! What? Yeah thats right i said it love sucks. Im talking about young love like when you in your early teens. Lets start at the beginning. Alright you are going to your mom’s house because she lives separate from your father. your sister or relative or cousin whatever brings over there friend or nephew doesn’t matter. anyways they like right off the bat and starts holding your hand and hugging you.of course you dont care cause they look good and your instincts tell you to let them. then when you get in the house or when you get settled down that person asks you for a kiss and you say ok and kiss them. Automatically you fall in love with them and have a certain love for them. now iv been hurt twice like this and it sucks. you and her or him start making out every once and a while. then sunday comes and you have to go back to your dads knowing that you might never see this person again. they ride with you in the car but you just set there listening to music thinking “what the hell am i going to do?” and that person doesn't talk to you or look at you either. then you know there thinking the same thing. then finally you pull in to your drive way and get out but you are to upset to say bye and just grab your stuff out of the car and say bye to your mom and not to that person. they dont say bye to you and thats it. you go to school and all you bcan think about is them. its been two days since i seen my sisters friend and what i told you was what happen to me last weekend i dont know what to do i dont have her number and no way of getting it so im going to just move on. thats right MOVE ON AND FORGET!!!!!!! Thanks for listening everybody!!!!!!
	</talkpage>
</article>