<article id="15555817" title=User talk:Kparker88>
	<talkpage id="15555817" title="User talk:Kparker88">
== sooo... ==

i miss you so much.
it's not even funny.
i hope things are awesome for you though!
and i can't wait until you are home. 
i love you so!
manda

== hi pretty lady. ==

hey...
so here is an update on life i guess.
ummm well currently i am sick...some sort of gross virus that i have had for over a week now. blah.
i was supposed to go to a mae/between the trees show tonight with danielle, but i am sick. sadness.
this weekend in STING FEST! i am SO stoked! i get to help the bands set up before the show...coolness!
the bands are all good too, and i have a class with the lead singer of one of them...very nice guy. :)
that is on friday, then saturday, we are playing softball agains our rival station 92.3 K rock...im so scared!
i have not played since 8th grade so im super rusty...hopefully i wont die. ha.
easter was nice, except that we still have stupid snow, and i was sick...how was your easter??? was it in Hong Kong?

i am sooo excited that you are gonna be an RA!!! do you know where yet??? thats too cool for words.
well, i actually might be getting on campus next semester!!! but we will see...i got the payment down and 
everything...i just have to wait for my stupid FAFSA...so yeah...we shall see! pray for me please!!!

things with AML are fine right now too. he joined format committee so i seem him more than i thought i would.
hes being pretty cool. we usually pass eachother on the way to class and we normally just just say hey...
but today he stopped me and started talking to me. oh goodness. :) i gave him some switchfoot cds too...so 
hopefully he likes that. i don't know much else about him...just letting things go as they go...you know?
i want God to take things in His hands...and its working...i have been praying about this thing for awhile now...
and things just seem to be good...so i am happy with that. :)

i guess i don't know much else to say right at the moment...other than i miss you sooooo much! i can't wait to see
you when you are back! i hope you are having an amazing time...cause you deserve it! you are such an amazing girl...
and i can't wait to hear all of your stories and see your pictures! you = AWESOME!

have a lovely day/night.
love you so!  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Heyamanda15|Heyamanda15]] ([[User talk:Heyamanda15|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Heyamanda15|contribs]]) 21:25, 25 March 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

hey girly...
no i didn't get your postcard...hopefully soon though! :)
hooray for presents! i think my biggest present will be getting to see you though.
cause i think i kinda miss you a lot!
ummm for next semester, danielle, ann, and this girl kat and i have an apartment on campus.
the berea town houses.
but i still have to get all my FAFSA back to make sure it still works out!
should be sweet.
where are you gonna RA? Caramel?
not too much is new i guess...except that AML kinda has a girlfriend now.
she is from Mt. Union. (skinny, tan, blonde, cheeleader, sorority girl) eww.
i didn't take it too well last week, but i am doing much better now. :)
no worries...just a crush...you know.
we will see what happens...its on major DL.
he doesn't know i know.
so yea, i saw Across the Universe finally. AMAZING.
that boy, stole my heart for sure. :)
well I LOVE YOU TOO! and can't wait to hear back from you!
and get your post card!
have a wonderful day!!!
manda  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Heyamanda15|Heyamanda15]] ([[User talk:Heyamanda15|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Heyamanda15|contribs]]) 12:54, 7 April 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== p.s. ==

by the way...dani and i did get your lovely postcard yesterday!!!
so cool. :)
thanks! i loved how it was from Capetown, South Africa and had a 
stamp from Malaysia on it. hehe.
ok bye bye!  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Heyamanda15|Heyamanda15]] ([[User talk:Heyamanda15|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Heyamanda15|contribs]]) 20:56, 8 April 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>