<article id="11786152" title=Talk:2007–08 Colorado Avalanche season>
	<talkpage id="11786152" title="Talk:2007–08 Colorado Avalanche season">
{{Ice hockey|class=Start}}

== Games ==

I'm currently adding and updating the games (future ones).  If I make any mistakes, or if someone just thinks it looks bad and can improve, feel more than free to do so! :) [[User:Jmlk17|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#008000&quot;&gt;Jmlk&lt;/span&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/Jmlk17|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#000080&quot;&gt;1&lt;/span&gt;]][[User_talk:Jmlk17|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#800000&quot;&gt;7&lt;/span&gt;]] 04:25, 11 September 2007 (UTC)

==2007-08 captain==
This sorta covers all 30 NHL team 2007-08 season articles. Though it's near certain that Joe Sakic will continue as Avalanche captain, at the start of the season; we should wait and be sure. Sakic could easily ''retire'', ''be traded'', ''be stripped of the captaincy'' or ''die''. My point is, let's be patient; most likely #19 will be in the lineup (at season's beginning) wearing the ''C''. [[User:GoodDay|GoodDay]] 23:11, 12 September 2007 (UTC)
:Joel Quenneville might die too and I don't see that being removed. It's 100% sure Sakic will be the captain and if in the end he ends up not be for whatever, we'll just change it. But for the information available now, he is the captain of the team, so why remove the information? There is even a reliable source that backs that up: [http://avalanche.nhl.com/team/app?service=page&amp;page=TeamPlayers&amp;type=roster the official Avalanche site]. Just my point of view. Cheers--[[User:Serte|Serte]] &lt;sup&gt;[&amp;nbsp;[[User talk:Serte|Talk]]&amp;nbsp;·&amp;nbsp;[[Special:Contributions/Serte|Contrib]]&amp;nbsp;]&lt;/sup&gt; 23:49, 12 September 2007 (UTC)
::The captain &amp; alternate captains are appointed at the start of 'each season' [even more technically, appointed each game]. The GM &amp; coach however, are hired 'til they're fired. [[User:GoodDay|GoodDay]] 00:01, 13 September 2007 (UTC)
:::Eh, we can hold off until the season starts... really no harm in it :). [[User:Jmlk17|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#008000&quot;&gt;Jmlk&lt;/span&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/Jmlk17|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#000080&quot;&gt;1&lt;/span&gt;]][[User_talk:Jmlk17|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#800000&quot;&gt;7&lt;/span&gt;]] 00:27, 13 September 2007 (UTC)
::::I suppose we could 'add' them, upon the start of the pre-season, or during training camp. Who am I?, to resist. [[User:GoodDay|GoodDay]] 23:25, 15 September 2007 (UTC)
:::::Besides the ''C'''s and ''A'''s have been added to the 30 roster templates. I'm too lazy to remove them. [[User:GoodDay|GoodDay]] 23:34, 15 September 2007 (UTC)
:Should be fine now actually; training camps have all opened. [[User:Jmlk17|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#008000&quot;&gt;Jmlk&lt;/span&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/Jmlk17|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#000080&quot;&gt;1&lt;/span&gt;]][[User_talk:Jmlk17|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#800000&quot;&gt;7&lt;/span&gt;]] 06:09, 16 September 2007 (UTC)
::Agreed. [[User:GoodDay|GoodDay]] 13:42, 16 September 2007 (UTC)

==Pre-season goalie decision==
How do you know who to put there when each goalie plays half of the game like they did yesterday against Dallas?--[[User:Serte|Serte]] &lt;sup&gt;[&amp;nbsp;[[User talk:Serte|Talk]]&amp;nbsp;·&amp;nbsp;[[Special:Contributions/Serte|Contrib]]&amp;nbsp;]&lt;/sup&gt; 11:56, 21 September 2007 (UTC)
:I'm not sure how you would want to do it for pre-season games, but for regular season and playoff, I have always used the goalie of record.  So, whoever gets credit for the win or the loss. [[User:Resolute|Reso]][[User Talk:Resolute|lute]] 17:48, 21 September 2007 (UTC)

==Game result color coding==
This is probably codified somewhere else as to which color means what, but what are rules being used and is there reason for the inconsistency? There appear to be four colors being used: #ffbbbb for normal game losses, #bbffbb for all wins, #dddddd for overtime losses and #ffffff also used for overtime losses. If overtime losses are set apart, why aren't overtime wins similarly color coded? Is the bgcolor used for game 39 a mistake? [[User:EvilCouch|EvilCouch]] ([[User talk:EvilCouch|talk]]) 04:25, 1 February 2008 (UTC)
:That #ffffff, I think, was unnecessary.  It's become a de facto standard across all NHL team season articles that green is used for all wins (since they are worth the same), red for losses, and white/no shading for OTLs. [[User:Resolute|Reso]][[User Talk:Resolute|lute]] 04:46, 1 February 2008 (UTC)
::That's what I thought as well. [[User:Jmlk17|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#008000&quot;&gt;Jmlk&lt;/span&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/Jmlk17|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#000080&quot;&gt;1&lt;/span&gt;]][[User_talk:Jmlk17|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#800000&quot;&gt;7&lt;/span&gt;]] 04:55, 1 February 2008 (UTC)
:::Cool. Thanks. [[User:EvilCouch|EvilCouch]] ([[User talk:EvilCouch|talk]]) 05:42, 1 February 2008 (UTC)

==Galiardi: Wing or Center==

The Draft Picks section lists T.J. Galiardi as a wing. While he's shown versatility in the 2009-10 season, playing both wing and center, I don't think this was the case when he was drafted. In a  [http://www.denverpost.com/avalanche/ci_12086456 Denver Post article published 7 April 2009], he says &quot;I've played center my whole life.&quot; A draft preview article at  [http://www.collegehockeynews.com/news/2007/06/21_draftpreview.php collegehockeynews.com] also lists him as a center.

[[User:Msramming|Msramming]] ([[User talk:Msramming|talk]]) 17:49, 9 December 2009 (UTC)
:He played the wing with the Calgary Hitmen (http://www.whl.ca/stats/player.php?id=25031).  Easy way to get around it is to change his position to &quot;Forward&quot;, which would cover both statements. [[User:Resolute|Reso]][[User Talk:Resolute|lute]] 17:52, 9 December 2009 (UTC)

== Dead link ==

During several automated bot runs the following external link was found to be unavailable. Please check if the link is in fact down and fix or remove it in that case!

* http://www.nhl.com/futures/2007draft/
** In [[2006–07 Frölunda HC season]] on 2011-05-26 02:28:12, 403 Forbidden
** In [[2007–08 Anaheim Ducks season]] on 2011-05-27 02:10:39, 403 Forbidden
** In [[2007–08 Anaheim Ducks season]] on 2011-05-27 15:33:35, 403 Forbidden
** In [[2006–07 Frölunda HC season]] on 2011-06-14 23:10:12, 403 Forbidden
** In [[2007–08 Anaheim Ducks season]] on 2011-06-15 22:33:53, 403 Forbidden

--[[User:JeffGBot|JeffGBot]] ([[User talk:JeffGBot|talk]]) 23:09, 15 June 2011 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>