<article id="26303286" title=User talk:Waymorecreative>
	<talkpage id="26303286" title="User talk:Waymorecreative">


&lt;div style=&quot;font-size:1.5em&quot;&gt;Welcome&lt;/div&gt;
----
Hello and welcome to Wikipedia!  We appreciate encyclopedic contributions, but some of '''[[Special:Contributions/{{BASEPAGENAME}}|your recent edits]]'''{{#if:Crayola|, such as the ones to the page [[:Crayola]],}} do not conform to our policies.  For more information on this, see [[Wikipedia:Vandalism|Wikipedia's policies on vandalism]] and [[Wikipedia:What Wikipedia is not|limits on acceptable additions]]. If you'd like to experiment with the wiki's syntax, please do so on [[Wikipedia:Sandbox]] rather than in articles.

If you still have questions, there is a [[Wikipedia:New contributors' help page|new contributor's help page]], or you can write '''&lt;nowiki&gt;{{helpme}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;''' below this message along with a question and someone will be along to answer it shortly.  You may also find the following pages useful for a general introduction to Wikipedia.
*[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]]
*[[Help:Contents|Help pages]]
*[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
*[[Wikipedia:Article wizard|Article wizard]]
*[[Wikipedia:Neutral point of view|Policy on neutral point of view]]
I hope you enjoy editing Wikipedia!  Please [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|sign your name]] on talk pages using four tildes (&lt;nowiki&gt;~~~~&lt;/nowiki&gt;); this will automatically produce your name and the date. Feel free to write a note on the bottom of {{#if:7|[[User talk:7{{!}}my talk page]]|my talk page}} if you want to get in touch with me. Again, welcome!  [[User talk:7|&lt;span style=&quot;background:#acf;padding:4px;color:white;text-shadow:black 0.2em 0.2em 0.3em&quot;&gt;&amp;nbsp;'''7'''&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;]] 01:00, 23 February 2010 (UTC)&lt;!-- Template:Welcomevandal --&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>