<article id="3629189" title=User talk:Luis Espejel>
	<talkpage id="3629189" title="User talk:Luis Espejel">
'''Welcome!'''

Hello {{PAGENAME}}, and [[Wikipedia:Welcome, newcomers|welcome]] to Wikipedia! Thank you for your contributions. I hope you like the place and decide to stay. Here are a few good links for newcomers:
*[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]]
*[[Help:Contents|Help pages]]
*[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to write a great article|How to write a great article]]
*[[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]]
I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! Please [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|sign your name]] on talk pages using four tildes (~&amp;#126;~~); this will automatically produce your name and the date. If you have any questions, check out [[Wikipedia:Where to ask a question]] or ask me on my talk page. Again, welcome!&amp;nbsp;'''[[User:Sceptre|&lt;span style=&quot;color: #04C&quot;&gt;Sceptr&lt;/span&gt;]][[Wikipedia:Esperanza|&lt;span style=&quot;color: #480&quot;&gt;e&lt;/span&gt;]]''' &lt;sup&gt;(&lt;em&gt;[[User_talk:Sceptre|&lt;span style=&quot;color: #4C0&quot;&gt;Talk&lt;/span&gt;]]&lt;/em&gt;)&lt;/sup&gt; 21:20, 5 January 2006 (UTC)

== Universidades y Colegios ==

I would like to invite you to check out the userboxes that I have created in Wikipedia!  If your Collge/University is not there feel free to make create one or let me known and I'll make it (User: Lufthmark)

==Association==
Dear Luis:
I will like to invite you to form part of [[Wikipedia:Association of Hispanic and Latin American writers]]. This would be a wonderful way to trade knowledge about Latin America (and Spain) and all things concerning Hispanics.

Thanks and [[God]] bless you!
Sincrely yours,
''[[User:AntonioMartin|Antonio Mariachi Martin]]''

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Userboxes/Education/Mexico

== Photo requests ==

Luis,

Do you do photo requests in Mexico City?
[[User:WhisperToMe|WhisperToMe]] ([[User talk:WhisperToMe|talk]]) 09:22, 8 June 2014 (UTC)


Sure, if it's near, let me know what do you need.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/198.208.251.23|198.208.251.23]] ([[User talk:198.208.251.23|talk]]) 15:54, 27 June 2014 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

{{ping|User:198.208.251.23}} Sorry for the late response! Is it okay if you photograph the front gate of [[Liceo Mexicano Japonés]]? It is at Camino a Santa Teresa No.1500, Col. Jardines del Pedregal C.P. 01900 México D.F.

Thank you
[[User:WhisperToMe|WhisperToMe]] ([[User talk:WhisperToMe|talk]]) 03:51, 14 April 2015 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>