<article id="43491094" title=Talk:Battle in Shakhtarsk Raion>
	<talkpage id="43491094" title="Talk:Battle in Shakhtarsk Raion">
{{talkheader}}
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Military History|class=Start
|B1 &lt;!-- Referencing and citations --&gt; = n
|B2 &lt;!-- Coverage and accuracy --&gt; =n
|B3 &lt;!-- Structure --&gt; = y
|B4 &lt;!-- Grammar and style --&gt; = n
|B5 &lt;!-- Supporting materials --&gt; = y
|Russian=y}}
{{WikiProject Russia|class=Start|importance=Mid}}
{{WikiProject Ukraine|class=Start|importance=Mid}}
}}
{{Ds/talk notice|topic=e-e|style=long}}
{{UKROM}}

== Original research ==
I don't see the term &quot;Battle in Shakhtarsk Raion&quot; used in any source. Russian and Ukrainian Wikipedias also don't know anything about it, it's within the larger war in Donbass. There's an article about a specific [[:ru:Бои за Саур-Могилу (2014)|battle of Savur-Mohyla]], but this article has a much larger scope.--[[Special:Contributions/5.0.245.237|5.0.245.237]] ([[User talk:5.0.245.237|talk]]) 21:22, 12 August 2014 (UTC)
::It isn't a proper name, it is a [[WP:NDESC]] for events in Shaktarsk Raion. Most of these locations are very close to each other, such as Marynivka, Dmytrivka, and Savur-Mohyla. They are not going to each get an article, and fighting often moves between them. That's why lumping them together makes sense. Individual battle articles would never meet notability guidelines. [[User:RGloucester|&lt;span style=&quot;font-family:Monotype Corsiva;font-size:12pt;color:#000000&quot;&gt;RGloucester &lt;/span&gt;]] — [[User talk:RGloucester|☎]] 21:42, 12 August 2014 (UTC)
:::Doesn't seem like [[WP:NDESC]] to me. More like [[WP:OR]] and [[WP:SYNTH]].--[[Special:Contributions/196.207.200.47|196.207.200.47]] ([[User talk:196.207.200.47|talk]]) 00:50, 13 August 2014 (UTC)
::::I don't understand what is &quot;original research&quot; about it. There has been fighting across Shakhtarsk Raion, as shown in sources. The fighting is therefore documented in an article that deals with that region. [[User:RGloucester|&lt;span style=&quot;font-family:Monotype Corsiva;font-size:12pt;color:#000000&quot;&gt;RGloucester &lt;/span&gt;]] — [[User talk:RGloucester|☎]] 00:57, 13 August 2014 (UTC)
:::::I agree with RGloucester; it's a descriptive name. That is not original research. [[User:Dustin V. S.|&lt;span style=&quot;color:green; font-family:Times New Roman&quot;&gt;''Dustin''&lt;/span&gt;]]&amp;nbsp;[[User talk:Dustin V. S.|(&lt;span style=&quot;color:green; font-family:Times New Roman&quot;&gt;talk&lt;/span&gt;)]] 01:04, 13 August 2014 (UTC)

==100 Russians killed==
Any proofs about &quot;100 Russians&quot; killed in action please.  &lt;small class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—&amp;nbsp;Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/195.112.127.212|195.112.127.212]] ([[User talk:195.112.127.212|talk]]) 13:14, 10 February 2015 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>