<article id="9248502" title=User talk:Mchlsavchuk>
	<talkpage id="9248502" title="User talk:Mchlsavchuk">
== '''Welcome to Wikipedia!''' ==
Dear Mchlsavchuk:
[[Wikipedia:Welcome, newcomers|Welcome]] to [[Wikipedia]], a free and open-content encyclopedia.  I hope you enjoy contributing.  To help get you settled in, I thought you might find the following pages useful:

* [[Wikipedia:Five pillars|Five Pillars of Wikipedia]]
* [[Wikipedia:Community Portal|Community Portal]]
* [[Wikipedia:FAQ|Frequently Asked Questions]]
* [[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]]
* [[Wikipedia:Revert|How to revert to a previous version of a page]]
* [[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
* [[Wikipedia:Copyrights|Copyrights]]
* [[Wikipedia:Shortcuts|Shortcuts]]

Don't worry too much about being perfect.  Very few of us are!  Just in case you are not perfect, click [[Wikipedia:Avoiding common mistakes|here]] to see how you can avoid making common mistakes.

If you are stuck, and looking for help, please come to the '''[[Wikipedia:New contributors' help page|New contributors' help page]]''', where experienced Wikipedians can answer any queries you have! Or, you can just type '''&lt;code&gt;{&amp;#123;helpme}}&lt;/code&gt;''' on your user page, and someone will show up shortly to answer your questions. 

Wikipedians try to follow a strict policy of [[Wikipedia:Please do not bite the newcomers|never biting new users]].  If you are unsure of how to do something, you are welcome to ask a more experienced user such as an [[Wikipedia:Administrator|administrator]].  One last bit of advice: please sign any discussion comment with four tildes (~&amp;#126;~~).  The software will automatically convert this into your signature which can be altered in the &quot;Preferences&quot; tab at the top of the screen.  I hope I have not overwhelmed you with information.  If you need any help just let me know.  Once again welcome to Wikipedia, and don't forget to [[Wikipedia:User page|tell us about]] [[User:{{PAGENAME}}|yourself]] and be [[Wikipedia:Bold|'''BOLD''']]!  [[User:Ksbrown|&lt;font color= &quot;3d8e01&quot;&gt;Ksbrown&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:Ksbrown|talk]]&lt;/sup&gt; 14:09, 1 February 2007 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>