<article id="8680512" title=Talk:List of Chicago Bears starting quarterbacks>
	<talkpage id="8680512" title="Talk:List of Chicago Bears starting quarterbacks">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject National Football League|class=List|importance=Mid|attention=yes}}
{{WikiProject Chicago|class=List|importance=NA|attention=yes}}
{{WikiProject Chicago Bears|class=List|importance=High|attention=yes}}
}}{{oldafdfull|date=2008-01-28|result='''merge''' to [[List of Chicago Bears players]]|page=List_of_Chicago_Bears_starting_quarterbacks}}

==Actual Starters? == 
In 2004, Lovie named Grossman was the Bears’ starting QB, however he injured his knee during week 4. In 2005, Grossman was also named as starting quarterback, but injured his ankle during the preseason. Although he missed a majority of the Season, he returned during week 15 against Atlanta, and later was named as the Bears’ starting QB during 16, and later in the playoffs.

Shouldn’t the article take note that Grossman’s was “actually” the Bears’ starting QB in 2004 and 2005 :-p. --[[User:ShadowJester07|ShadowJester07]] 23:17, 30 December 2006 (UTC)

I went by the Bears regular season depth charts for those years in question.  Both depth charts do not even list Grossman.  I do not disagree that Lovie may have at the very very beginning of those seasons, stated Grossman would be the starter. For example Chris Chandler 2002-2003 was listed for half of the 2002 season and half of the 2003 season. Equalling one full playing year as Starter. Grossman's first full year was the 2006 season.--[[User:Knowpedia|knowpedia]] 06:48, 4 January 2007 (UTC)

==Section Headers==
Using &quot;Noughts&quot; as the section header for the new millennium is creating some confusion, since many people do not understand what it means. According to Wikipedia's page for 2000, the term &quot;Noughties&quot; is not very popular in North America (or atleast America. Perhaps we can change the headers to numeric forms, like 199=80s, 1990s, 2000s? --&lt;small&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;border: 1px solid&quot;&gt;[[user:ShadowJester07|'''&lt;span style=&quot;background-color:White; color:#003333&quot;&gt; &amp;nbsp;ShadowJester07&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;''']][[User talk:ShadowJester07|&lt;span style=&quot;background-color:#00004d; color:#FF4F00&quot;&gt;&amp;nbsp;►Talk&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;]] &lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt; 01:23, 1 February 2007 (UTC)
::I noticed its done. --[[User:Knowpedia|ⅮⅭⅭⅬⅩⅩⅤⅠⅠ]] 06:04, 14 February 2007 (UTC)

==Why not a Category?==
Instead of a list, why not have a category for QB's? [[User:KyuuA4|KyuuA4]] 07:32, 9 February 2007 (UTC)
:As far as I know a category is alpha. We need a list based on progession. Its a historical timeline. Also any QB ever to touch a ball for the Bears could end up in the cat. What are other NFL Teams doing?  Have they put together a timeline or a cat? I like this look, but if every other NFL team is using [[Catagory:Bears starting QuarterBacks]], we should also. --[[User:Knowpedia|ⅮⅭⅭⅬⅩⅩⅤⅠⅠ]] 06:04, 14 February 2007 (UTC)
 &lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;----I found a list of people who started for the Bears from 1979-2008. 
1979: Mike Phipps, Vince Evans, Bob Avellini
1980: Phipps, Evans
1981: Evans
1982: Bob Avellini, Jim McMahon
1983: McMahon, Evans
1984: McMahon, Avellini, Steve Fuller, Rusty Lisch, Greg Landry
1985: McMahon, Steve Fuller
1986: McMahon, Mike Tomczak, Steve Fuller, Doug Flutie
1987: McMahon, Tomczak
1988: McMahon, Tomczak, Jim Harbaugh
1989: Tomczak, Harbaugh
1990: Harbaugh, Tomczak
1991: Harbaugh
1992: Harbaugh, Peter Tom Willis, Will Furrer
1993: Harbaugh, Willis
1994: Erik Kramer, Steve Walsh
1995: Kramer 1996: Kramer, Dave Kreig
1997: Kramer, Rick Mirer
1998: Kramer, Steve Stenstrom, Moses Moreno
1999: Shane Matthews, Cade McNown, Jim Miller
2000: McNown, Matthews, Miller
2001: Miller, Matthews
2002: Miller, Chris Chandler, Henry Burris
2003: Kordell Stewart, Chandler, Rex Grossman
2004: Grossman, Jonathan Quinn, Craig Krenzel, Chad Hutchinson
2005: Kyle Orton, Grossman
2006: Grossman
2007: Grossman, Brian Griese, Orton
2008: Orton, Grossman
(http://bearshistory.com/lore/chicagobearsquarterbacks.aspx) This is the website where I found the information. I hope this helps...USER:Wpcook  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—&amp;nbsp;Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Wpcook|Wpcook]] ([[User talk:Wpcook|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Wpcook|contribs]]) 21:51, 12 November 2013 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Gary Huff was omitted as a Chicago Bears Quarterback ==

Gary Huff played for the Bears from 1973 to 1976.  His name was omitted from the roster of quarterbacks, but should be included.^^^^  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/63.236.246.194|63.236.246.194]] ([[User talk:63.236.246.194|talk]]) 17:04, 12 November 2010 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Table ==

After 1950 I'm having trouble figuring out which QB's actually started as a QB. I've been using Pro-Football Reference. Thanks! [[User:Southwood Paul|&lt;font color=&quot;#0040C0&quot;&gt;'''''Southwood Paul'''''&lt;/font&gt;]] &lt;font color=&quot;#ffff20&quot;&gt; ([[User talk:Southwood Paul|&lt;font color=&quot;#206020&quot;&gt;'''talk'''&lt;/font&gt;]]) &lt;/font&gt; 02:12, 19 December 2010 (UTC)

What I did for some of the other QB pages was just list who threw the most yards each year. I didn't list the number of games they started and just listed the QB's names. BTW, great job on the table! Gilliganfanatic 02:36, 19 December 2010 (UTC)

Pro-Football Reference has a table that lists the starters for each position. There is some discrepancy in the data however. Example is 1934 NFL season where only one player is marked as a QB, but he started 12/13 games. No other site I have found lists games started until a few decades later. [[User:Dingomate|Dingomate]] ([[User talk:Dingomate|talk]]) 09:27, 18 May 2015 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>