<article id="9710015" title=Talk:List of Australian Touring Car and V8 Supercar champions>
	<talkpage id="9710015" title="Talk:List of Australian Touring Car and V8 Supercar champions">
{{WikiProject Australia|class=list|importance=|motorsport=yes|motorsport-importance=high}}
==ATCC==
''Copied from [[User talk:GTHO]] and [[User talk:ScottDavis]]:''
:Is it possible there is info missing from [[List of Australian Touring Car and V8 Supercar Champions]] for the non-V8 winners between 1993 and 1998? --[[User:ScottDavis|Scott Davis]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:ScottDavis|Talk]]&lt;/sup&gt; 12:05, 21 February 2007 (UTC)

I can't really see any major issues with the ATCC results you mentioned. Any particular points you are concerned with? [[User:GTHO|GTHO]] 09:59, 22 February 2007 (UTC)

:The winners listed for 1993 to 1998 appear to be all V8 Supercars/ Shell Series. Was there a separate &quot;Australian Touring Car Championship&quot; awarded in that period for some other class? --[[User:ScottDavis|Scott Davis]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:ScottDavis|Talk]]&lt;/sup&gt; 11:00, 22 February 2007 (UTC)

Yes, you are right, there was a championship for drivers of 2 litre Touring Cars (from 1993 to 2000/01). However I think we should record those championships separately from the ''List of Australian Touring Car and V8 Supercar Champions''. [[User:GTHO|GTHO]] 10:18, 25 February 2007 (UTC)

----
I'm not sure ''which'' series was called [[Australian Touring Car Championship]] in those years, but the winners should be listed in this article ([[List of Australian Touring Car and V8 Supercar Champions]]). Alternatively, it should be split into separate [[List of Australian Touring Car Champions]] and [[List of V8 Supercar Champions]] articles. --[[User:ScottDavis|Scott Davis]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:ScottDavis|Talk]]&lt;/sup&gt; 10:42, 25 February 2007 (UTC)

Australian Touring Car Championship was always the V8 series during the 90's. The 1993 2.0 litre series was a class battle held within V8 races. It became its own series in 1994 as the Valvoline Australian Manufacturers Championship if memory serves before becoming the Australian Super Touring Car Championship in 1995, a title it held until after its fade as a respectable championship.[[User:Falcadore|Falcadore]] 21:27, 2 May 2007 (UTC)

== SLR??? ==

We have SL/R 5000, SLR/5000 and SLR 5000 on the page. Which is correct? --[[User:Falcadore|Falcadore]] ([[User talk:Falcadore|talk]]) 03:45, 19 July 2009 (UTC)
:Good point. I've removed the 1978 Brock &quot;SLR 5000&quot; entry as this simply shouldn't be there. The May 1975 GMH brochure T97/R refers to it as the &quot;Torana SLR 5000&quot; but features images of the car with &quot;SL/R 5000&quot; decals on the front guards and the rear spoiler. Page 43 of Australian Muscle Car, Issue 15 has an image of the front cover of what appears to be an official GMH publication with the following visible on it 
::Torana &quot;LH&quot; Series
::SL/R 5000
::With L34 Option
::Parts Catalogue Supplement
:I think we should be using SL/R 5000 even if GMH did not always remember to do so. I have amended the table accordingly [[User:GTHO|GTHO]] ([[User talk:GTHO|talk]]) 12:13, 19 July 2009 (UTC)
::But wait, there’s more!! Issue 35 of Australian Muscle Car has a feature article on the Torana A9X. This includes a GMH publicity shot of a “non-A9X” Torana LX sedan which has “SLR 5000” emblazoned down the side. The article also has a studio shot of a beautifully restored A9X sedan with a full width “SLR 5000” across the back of the car. So it seems that we should be using “SL/R 5000” for the LH Torana and “SLR 5000” for the LX!!!! [[User:GTHO|GTHO]] ([[User talk:GTHO|talk]]) 03:21, 20 July 2009 (UTC)
:::You're doing this deliberately. I'm going to complain to the teacher! --[[User:Falcadore|Falcadore]] ([[User talk:Falcadore|talk]]) 12:26, 20 July 2009 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>