<article id="25705954" title=User talk:Bobby1263>
	<talkpage id="25705954" title="User talk:Bobby1263">
==Welcome!==
'''Welcome!'''

Hello, {{BASEPAGENAME}}, and [[Wikipedia:Introduction|welcome]] to Wikipedia! Thank you for [[Special:Contributions/{{BASEPAGENAME}}|your contributions]]{{#if:|, especially what you did for [[:{{{art}}}]]}}. I hope you like the place and decide to stay. Here are some pages that you might find helpful:
*[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
*[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]] and [[Wikipedia:Article development|How to develop articles]]
*[[Wikipedia:Your first article|How to create your first article]] (using the [[Wikipedia:Article wizard2.0|Article Wizard]] if you wish)
*[[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]]
I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! Please [[Wikipedia:Signatures|sign]] your messages on [[Wikipedia:talk page|discussion page]]s using four [[tilde]]s (&lt;nowiki&gt;~~~~&lt;/nowiki&gt;); this will automatically insert your username and the date. If you need help, check out [[Wikipedia:Questions]], ask me on {{#if:|[[user talk:{{{1}}}|my talk page]]|my talk page}}, or ask your question on this page and then place &lt;code&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;{{helpme}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;&lt;/code&gt; before the question. Again, welcome! &lt;!-- Template:Welcome --&gt;  [[User:Cerebellum|Cerebellum]] ([[User talk:Cerebellum|talk]]) 21:07, 6 January 2010 (UTC)

==[[Thopella]]==
Hello!  Thank you for creating the article [[Thopella]].  However, the article as it currently stands does not meet Wikipedia's [[WP:GNG|notability guidelines]].  The content of your article would probably fit in better as a part of the article on [[Vaidiki Brahmins]].  What do you think about adding the information in your article to the one on Vaidiki Brahmins, and then making your page a [[WP:R|redirect]] to Vaidiki Brahmins?  [[User:Cerebellum|Cerebellum]] ([[User talk:Cerebellum|talk]]) 21:14, 6 January 2010 (UTC)
:Okay Bobby, I couldn't figure out which of the two lists of surnames in the Vaidiki Brahmins article this should go into, and I also couldn't find any online sources with more detail, so I just changed your page to a redirect without merging.  Please complete the merge by adding the information in the correct section of the Viadiki Brahmins article.  Regards, [[User:Cerebellum|Cerebellum]] ([[User talk:Cerebellum|talk]]) 19:21, 7 January 2010 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>