<article id="3614976" title=Talk:James Webb (historian)>
	<talkpage id="3614976" title="Talk:James Webb (historian)">
{{Old AfD multi| date = 13 September 2009 (UTC) | result = '''keep''' | page = James Webb (historian) }}

{{WikiProject Biography
|living=no
|class=Start
|s&amp;a-work-group=yes
|listas=Webb, James (historian)
}}


==Untitled==
Given that there are now four James Webbs listed in the disambiguation section, wouldn't it make sense to start a disambiguation page?

[[User:Ortcutt|Ortcutt]] 10:41, 4 January 2006 (UTC)

:Please see [[James Webb (disambiguation)]]. It would seem that the disambiguation section for this article could use some tweaking. [[User:HJKeats|HJKeats]] 14:59, 16 February 2006 (UTC)

== Screenplay writer - James R. Webb needs wikipedia article and links corrected ==

I was trying to look up James R. Webb on wikipedia today as I was watching The Hawaiians. His name appears in credits for the Hawaiians and other movies - but when clicking on his name - it links to the wrong James R. Webb.
[[User:Tiger555|Tiger555]] 22:00, 19 February 2007 (UTC)Tiger555

== Notability ==

A self-published book and a dead link to a website do not notability make.  AfD launched.[[User:Simonm223|Simonm223]] ([[User talk:Simonm223|talk]]) 18:27, 13 September 2009 (UTC)
:: Don't be a douche.  Articles published about him in a print journal, and his best known book was most certainly NOT self-published.  http://www.gurdjieff.org/G.8-1.htm  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/69.171.176.201|69.171.176.201]] ([[User talk:69.171.176.201|talk]]) 09:56, 17 July 2010 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;


: Maybe, but you're not describing the James Webb of this article. After looking at the other James Webbs, I'm still not sure who you mean to challenge. [[User:Harshael|Harshael]] ([[User talk:Harshael|talk]]) 03:53, 2 February 2010 (UTC)

::[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=James_Webb_%28historian%29&amp;action=historysubmit&amp;diff=327826800&amp;oldid=313614484] Although I retain my notability concerns due to a lack of inline citations and third party references you will note that the article has undergone considerable change since when I made those comments. [[User:Simonm223|Simonm223]] ([[User talk:Simonm223|talk]]) 13:22, 3 February 2010 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>