<article id="32362386" title=Talk:Knights Templar Cartel>
	<talkpage id="32362386" title="Talk:Knights Templar Cartel">
{{WikiProject Mexico|class=C|importance=mid}}

==Loaded Phrase/P.O.V./Editorializing==
Although I'm not comfortable making the change myself when not logged in, it seems to me that this sentence (in addition to the missing 'S' in indoctrinates) is phrased in an inappropriately scolding tone:

 &quot;The Knights Templar cartel indoctrinate its operatives to &quot;fight and die&quot; for what they call &quot;social justice&quot;.&quot;

What's with the &quot;what they call&quot; in this? If the cartel is saying this (especially being directly quoted as saying it), we can assume that all the words have the meaning the cartel would ascribe to them. We wouldn't say that police departments indoctrinate their operatives to &quot;protect&quot; and what they call &quot;serve&quot;. The reader can probably make an informed judgement for themselves whether cartels primary ''raison d'etre'' is social justice.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/67.142.165.27|67.142.165.27]] ([[User talk:67.142.165.27|talk]]) 17:04, 22 September 2011 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

==I DON'T GET IT==
This isn't illegal:  The Knights Templar Cartel indoctrinates its operatives to &quot;fight and die&quot; for &quot;social justice&quot;.  Well sounds good (hoping they investigate well first).

Drugs aren't illegal.  Sometimes law complains of effects.

The definition of &quot;Cartel&quot; from Webster's 1913 doesn't even mention crime.

&quot;The Resistance&quot; says nothing of crime.

There isn't a single criminal complaint in the article.  It says war but cites no battle.  There is a &quot;war&quot; on everything but reducing taxes as far as I hear.

And as far as police I have some trying to steal my car.  I'm not going to say whether police or cartel is more the good-guy.  That's just my mileage.

But if you say so.  I'll beleive half of what I hear :)

the b b c artilcle crosses it's testimony continually.  it claims they deal drugs but are against it's use.  claim the cartel protects residents and are against abuse but exthort.  it claims &quot;a leader&quot; was caught but not of what gang.  and claims this cartel was responsible for killing but never says the cartel claimed responsibility.  finally: it says they've been accused not that a thing has been proven in any court.

what is clear is real conflict in the area and a conflict of interest.  and the article looks nice.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/72.209.222.174|72.209.222.174]] ([[User talk:72.209.222.174|talk]]) 19:39, 26 July 2013 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Links ==

[http://www.aljazeera.com/news/americas/2014/01/mexico-catches-knights-templar-cartel-boss-201412803919436455.html &gt;&gt; Mexico catches Knights Templar cartel boss]([[User:Lihaas|Lihaas]] ([[User talk:Lihaas|talk]]) 06:08, 28 January 2014 (UTC)).

== Update needed ==

The article needs of some updating with regards to the beating this cartel is taking (took) from the organized vigilantes (&quot;autodefensas&quot;), and of the apparent transformation into the new cartel called &quot;[[La Tercera Hermandad]]&quot; (or H3), according to this article: http://www.excelsior.com.mx/nacional/2014/05/06/957619#cxrecs_s
Cheers, --[[User:BatteryIncluded|BatteryIncluded]] ([[User talk:BatteryIncluded|talk]]) 02:23, 7 May 2014 (UTC)

:Maybe not so. Seems there is a propaganda war from some front. Let's stand by. http://www.aztecanoticias.com.mx/notas/estados/190246/no-hay-nuevo-cartel-en-michoacan-castillo
:[[User:BatteryIncluded|BatteryIncluded]] ([[User talk:BatteryIncluded|talk]]) 07:32, 8 May 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>