<article id="4720181" title=User talk:JEdmundson>
	<talkpage id="4720181" title="User talk:JEdmundson">
==Welcome== 
Hello '''{{PAGENAME}}''' and welcome to Wikipedia! I'm glad you've chosen to join us. This is a great project with lots of dedicated people, which might seem intimidating at times, but don't let anything discourage you. [[Be bold!]], explore, and contribute. If you want to learn more, &lt;p&gt; [[Wikipedia:Bootcamp]] teaches you the basics quickly, &lt;/br&gt; [[Wikipedia:Tutorial]] is more in-depth, and &lt;/br&gt; [[Wikipedia:Topical index]] is exhaustive. &lt;p&gt; The following links might also come in handy: &lt;/br&gt; [[Wikipedia:Glossary|Glossary]] &lt;/br&gt; [[Wikipedia:FAQ|FAQ]] &lt;/br&gt; [[Wikipedia:Help|Help]] &lt;/br&gt; [[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]] &lt;/br&gt; [[Wikipedia:Five_pillars|Five Pillars of Wikipedia]] &lt;/br&gt; &lt;/br&gt; Float around for awhile until you find something that tickles your fancy. One easy way to do this is to hit the [[Special:Random|random page]] button in the navigation bar to the left. There are also many great committees and groups that focus on particular jobs. Finally, the Wikimedia Foundation has several other wiki [http://wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Our_projects projects] that you might enjoy. &lt;/br&gt; &lt;/br&gt; There are a few crucial points to keep in mind when editing. Be [[Wikipedia:Civility|civil]] with users, strive to maintain a [[Wikipedia:NPOV|neutral]] point of view, [[Wikipedia:Verifiability|verify]] your information, and show good [[Wikipedia:Wikiquette|etiquette]] like signing your comments with four tildes. If you have any more questions, always feel free to ask me anything on my [[User_talk:Soumyasch|talk page]] or ask the true experts at [[Wikipedia:Help desk]]. Again, welcome!

--[[User:Soumyasch|&lt;font color=&quot;green&quot;&gt;so&lt;/font&gt;]][[User talk:Soumyasch|&lt;font color=&quot;red&quot;&gt;U&lt;/font&gt;]][[User:Soumyasch|&lt;font color=&quot;green&quot;&gt;m&lt;/font&gt;]][[User talk:Soumyasch|&lt;font color=&quot;red&quot;&gt;'''y'''&lt;/font&gt;]][[User:Soumyasch|&lt;font color=&quot;green&quot;&gt;a&lt;/font&gt;]][[User talk:Soumyasch|&lt;font color=&quot;red&quot;&gt;S&lt;/font&gt;]][[User:Soumyasch|&lt;font color=&quot;green&quot;&gt;ch&lt;/font&gt;]] 14:34, 12 April 2006 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>