<article id="41058771" title=User talk:Barman42qwerty>
	<talkpage id="41058771" title="User talk:Barman42qwerty">

&lt;div style=&quot;font-size:1.5em&quot;&gt;Welcome&lt;/div&gt;
----
Hello and welcome to Wikipedia!  We appreciate encyclopedic contributions, but some of '''[[Special:Contributions/{{BASEPAGENAME}}|your recent edits]]''', such as the ones to the page [[:Per Mertesacker]], do not conform to our policies.  For more information on this, see [[Wikipedia:Vandalism|Wikipedia's policies on vandalism]] and [[Wikipedia:What Wikipedia is not|limits on acceptable additions]]. If you'd like to experiment with the wiki's syntax, please do so in the [[Wikipedia:Sandbox|&quot;sandbox&quot;]] rather than in articles.

If you still have questions, there is a [[Wikipedia:New contributors' help page|new contributor's help page]], or you can write '''&lt;nowiki&gt;{{helpme}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;''' below this message along with a question and someone will be along to answer it shortly.  You may also find the following pages useful for a general introduction to Wikipedia.
*[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
*[[Help:Contents|Help pages]]
*[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
I hope you enjoy editing and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]!  Please [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|sign your name]] on talk pages using four tildes (&lt;nowiki&gt;~~~~&lt;/nowiki&gt;); this will automatically produce your name and the date. Feel free to write a note on the bottom of [[User talk:Mentoz86{{!}}my talk page]] if you want to get in touch with me. Again, welcome!  [[User:Mentoz86|Mentoz86]] ([[User talk:Mentoz86|talk]]) 14:21, 12 November 2013 (UTC)&lt;!-- Template:Welcomevandal --&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>