<article id="2041954" title=Talk:Herbie: Fully Loaded>
	<talkpage id="2041954" title="Talk:Herbie: Fully Loaded">
{{WikiProject Film|American-task-force=yes|class=C|B-Class-1=no|B-Class-2=no|B-Class-3=no|B-Class-4=yes|B-Class-5=yes}}
{{WikiProject Disney|class=C|importance=Low}}

== Promotional? ==
That summary sounds kinda, uh, promotional. Like it was copied from somewhere. [[User:Everyking|Everyking]] 06:37, 14 Jun 2005 (UTC)
:Some parts of the review seem to be copied from [http://www.themoviespoiler.com/Spoilers/herbie.html] [[User:Laogooli|Laogooli]] 21:32, 28 June 2007 (UTC)

==Computer Graphics==
There should be some mention of Lohan's post-production &quot;breast reduction&quot;. [[User:Design|Design]] 10:56, 23 May 2006 (UTC)
:It's my understanding that this is an &quot;urban legend,&quot; and not actually true.  If it IS true, there should be a citation demonstrating evidence of such.--[[User:G.B. Blackrock|G.B. Blackrock]] 23:32, 28 May 2007 (UTC)
::Well, IMDB states that it's true: &quot;Lohan Has Digital Breast Reduction&quot; http://www.imdb.com/news/wenn/2005-06-06#celeb3 --[[Special:Contributions/93.196.50.153|93.196.50.153]] ([[User talk:93.196.50.153|talk]]) 19:56, 10 May 2008 (UTC)
::A friend told me that she heard that LL's boobs had too be volumed down with computers because it's a Disney release.  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/89.143.129.56|89.143.129.56]] ([[User talk:89.143.129.56|talk]]) 22:33, 6 August 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:::Her boobs are real and haven't been tampered with.  Although Lindsay's weight has gone too low at times, which alters her breast physiology, structure and dynamics.  Lindsay was at a good, healthy weight in &quot;Herbie&quot; and her breasts looked great.  Her mom had a good set and Aliana is stacked also so it's genetic.  I recall a Disney special effects documentary on &quot;Herbie&quot; and there was no mention of computerized breast alteration--so this CGI rumour is an urban legend.  [[Special:Contributions/209.77.229.169|209.77.229.169]] ([[User talk:209.77.229.169|talk]]) 02:21, 30 December 2010 (UTC)
::::Neither IMDB nor ''&quot;A friend told me&quot;'', are considered reliable sources.  [[User:A man alone| a_man_alone]] ([[User talk:A man alone|talk]]) 15:53, 3 January 2011 (UTC)

source http://www.hollywood.com/news/brief/2440957/lindsay-lohan-has-digital-breast-reduction?page=all  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/82.41.41.184|82.41.41.184]] ([[User talk:82.41.41.184|talk]]) 13:20, 7 July 2014 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Trivia vs. Miscellany? ==

Until somebody can explain to me the difference between Trivia and Miscellany, I'm going to merge the sections. Those who are adament about the partition, feel free to revert. [[User:Shnikees|Stephen]] 21:55, 23 May 2006 (UTC)

== Remake? ==

Hi, can anyone tell me what this is a remake of? As far as I can see it's an entirely new film which has Herbie in it. I was tempted to just remove it from the remake category but thought I'd better check first. [[User:Mallanox|Mallanox]] 17:33, 19 October 2006 (UTC)
:No reply so I will remove the category. [[User:Mallanox|Mallanox]] 16:36, 1 November 2006 (UTC)

The Love Bug  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/82.41.41.184|82.41.41.184]] ([[User talk:82.41.41.184|talk]]) 13:21, 7 July 2014 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Bad Article ==

This article needs a rewrite, the writing is ridiculously bad and sophomoric. &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:24.174.180.235|24.174.180.235]] ([[User talk:24.174.180.235|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/24.174.180.235|contribs]]) 19:54, 1 January 2007&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt;

:It also needs to have some reviews not just what it grossed. [[User:A Lone Gamer|A Lone Gamer]] 23:37, 20 June 2007 (UTC)

== Links ==

The choice of subjects for links to other articles in this article are very unintelligently chosen.
There are links to articles for common words like &quot;angle&quot;, &quot;shame&quot;, &quot;behavior&quot;, &quot;grass&quot;, and numbers like &quot;10,000&quot; which serve no purpose to the article itself. [[User:Xikaze|Xikaze]] 21:13, October 29 2007 (UTC)

== Lindsay Couldn't Drive ==

I think it should be mentioned that Lindsay Lohan didn't know how to drive when she made &quot;Herbie Fully Loaded&quot;.  As I recall, her first real car was a Mercedes with the license plate saying &quot;illegal&quot;, implying that she was under 18.  [[Special:Contributions/209.77.229.169|209.77.229.169]] ([[User talk:209.77.229.169|talk]]) 02:12, 30 December 2010 (UTC)

== New movie 2011? ==

herbie goes to las vegas  http://herbie.wikia.com/wiki/Herbie_goes_to_Las_Vegas  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/121.44.111.4|121.44.111.4]] ([[User talk:121.44.111.4|talk]]) 02:40, 3 June 2011 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== KITT cameo ==

Is it trivia to mention this movie had an Easter Egg appearance of KITT from [[Knight_Rider_(1982_TV_series)]]?

--[[Special:Contributions/70.17.201.156|70.17.201.156]] ([[User talk:70.17.201.156|talk]]) 00:59, 10 December 2014 (UTC)

:Probably.  Is there any addition to the plot by KITT's presence?  When in the film does it happen?  [[User:Chaheel Riens|Chaheel Riens]] ([[User talk:Chaheel Riens|talk]]) 09:08, 10 December 2014 (UTC)

::Just watched this with my kids.  It's barely a glimpse - 1m 36s into the film during the opening credits there's a one second still shot of Herbie with KITT alongside.  It's ''really'' not worth mentioning. [[User:Chaheel Riens|Chaheel Riens]] ([[User talk:Chaheel Riens|talk]]) 21:05, 3 March 2015 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>