<article id="3484928" title=User talk:Misbeaten>
	<talkpage id="3484928" title="User talk:Misbeaten">
==Welcome== Hello '''{{PAGENAME}}''' and welcome to Wikipedia! I'm glad you've chosen to join us. This is a great project with lots of dedicated people, which might seem intimidating at times, but don't let anything discourage you. [[Be bold!]], explore, and contribute. If you want to learn more, &lt;p&gt; [[Wikipedia:Bootcamp]] teaches you the basics quickly, &lt;/br&gt; [[Wikipedia:Tutorial]] is more in-depth, and &lt;/br&gt; [[Wikipedia:Topical index]] is exhaustive. &lt;p&gt; The following links might also come in handy: &lt;/br&gt; [[Wikipedia:Glossary|Glossary]] &lt;/br&gt; [[Wikipedia:FAQ|FAQ]] &lt;/br&gt; [[Wikipedia:Help|Help]] &lt;/br&gt; [[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]] &lt;/br&gt; [[Wikipedia:Five_pillars|Five Pillars of Wikipedia]] &lt;/br&gt; &lt;/br&gt; Float around for awhile until you find something that tickles your fancy. One easy way to do this is to hit the [[Special:Random|random page]] button in the navigation bar to the left. There are also many great committees and groups that focus on particular jobs. My personal favorite stomping grounds are [[Wikipedia:Translation into English]] and [[Wikipedia:Cleanup]] for sloppy articles. Finally, the Wikimedia Foundation has several other wiki [http://wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Our_projects projects] that you might enjoy. &lt;/br&gt; &lt;/br&gt; There are a few crucial points to keep in mind when editing. Be [[Wikipedia:Civility|civil]] with users, strive to maintain a [[Wikipedia:NPOV|neutral]] point of view, [[Wikipedia:Verifiability|verify]] your information, and show good [[Wikipedia:Wikiquette|etiquette]] like signing your comments with four tildes like this: &lt;nowiki&gt; ~~~~ &lt;/nowiki&gt; If you have any more questions, always feel free to ask me anything on my [[User_talk:Draeco|talk page]] or ask the true experts at [[Wikipedia:Help desk]]. Again, welcome! -- [[User:Draeco|Draeco]] 23:39, 20 December 2005 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>