<article id="4381797" title=Talk:Chacoan pygmy opossum>
	<talkpage id="4381797" title="Talk:Chacoan pygmy opossum">
{{WikiProject Mammals|class=start|importance=low|Monotremes=yes|needs-photo=yes}}

== Merge into [[Agile Gracile Opossum]] ==

This article is about the animal know as ''Gracilinanus agilis'', the [[Agile Gracile Opossum]]. WP should not have 2 articles on the same species that are only differentiated by a different taxonomic source. MSW3 (2005) does not recognize this taxonomy from 2004. There is no need to have a duplicate article. --[[User:Tombstone|Tombstone]] ([[User talk:Tombstone|talk]]) 06:06, 22 September 2008 (UTC)

:They are decidedly distinct species (and genera). MSW 3 was out of date when it was published. I will revert your change. [[User talk:Ucucha|Ucucha]] 06:45, 22 September 2008 (UTC)
:Also note that MSW 3 does recognise this as a species distinct from ''G. agilis'' (the &quot;Pygmy Opossum&quot;, ''Gracilinanus formosus''). The 2004 paper describing a new genus simply came too late to be included by Gardner. [[User talk:Ucucha|Ucucha]] 06:48, 22 September 2008 (UTC)

::Please do not remove the merge proposal before an actual discussion can occur; I re-added the template for the time being. Question: Is [http://research.amnh.org/mammalogy/personnel/voss/VossGardner&amp;Jansa2004.pdf this] the source you were using, it was the only hit Yahoo! returned. Rgrds. --[[User:Tombstone|Tombstone]] ([[User talk:Tombstone|talk]]) 07:35, 22 September 2008 (UTC)

:::Yes. And I do not see why a discussion should occur when the proposal is clearly wrong, as in this case. [[User talk:Ucucha|Ucucha]] 15:46, 22 September 2008 (UTC)

::::Well, they only had one specimen to study and it was 83 years old. On page 7, under the heading &quot;Phylogenetic Relationships&quot;, they admit &quot;our very limited material is a significant problem&quot;. The proposal uses &quot;application[s] of missing-entry replacement&quot; that &quot;can sometimes yield spurious results that are not supported by any observable data&quot; &lt;nowiki&gt;[page 15]&lt;/nowiki&gt;. As far as I can tell, there has been no additional studies done on this to corroborate the claim. That is why I am thinking WP should not call this a species as of yet. Rgrds. --[[User:Tombstone|Tombstone]] ([[User talk:Tombstone|talk]]) 16:31, 22 September 2008 (UTC)

:::::[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science?_ob=ArticleURL&amp;_udi=B7GX2-4KCRSH2-1&amp;_user=10&amp;_rdoc=1&amp;_fmt=&amp;_orig=search&amp;_sort=d&amp;view=c&amp;_version=1&amp;_urlVersion=0&amp;_userid=10&amp;md5=ade6ef4a41d607cd9b4c3344882fd625], [http://www.checklist.org.br/getpdf?NGD034-07]. It is no longer known only from the holotype. Furthermore, MSW 3 already recognized it as a separate species, as I noted before, and we do not have to judge if a particular taxonomic change was correct: there are taxonomists who do that. [[User talk:Ucucha|Ucucha]] 16:40, 22 September 2008 (UTC)

We should be following MSW3, unless there is a preponderance of post-MSW3 evidence. The merge should be dropped. - [[User:UtherSRG|UtherSRG]] [[User_talk:UtherSRG|(talk)]] 14:07, 24 September 2008 (UTC)

==Move discussion in progress==
There is a move discussion in progress on [[Talk:Derby's Woolly Opossum#Requested move |Talk:Derby's Woolly Opossum]] which affects this page. Please participate on that page and not in this talk page section. Thank you. &lt;!-- Talk:Derby's Woolly Opossum crosspost --&gt; —[[User:RM bot|RM bot]] 02:01, 4 April 2011 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>