<article id="39260185" title=Talk:Kalki Bhagavan/Archive 1>
	<talkpage id="39260185" title="Talk:Kalki Bhagavan/Archive 1">
== quote from Kalki Bhagavan's website ==

[[User:220.226.39.171|220.226.39.171]] 14:50, 10 November 2007 (UTC)Source of the Oneness Blessing
Oneness Blessing originates in the consciousness of Sri Amma Bhagavan. Wherever Oneness Blessing is given in the world it sources itself in the being of Sri Amma and Sri Bhagavan.    www.onenessuniversity.org   This added piece of information seems important for one receiving the blessing also known as Deeksha or Diksha   not all believe this above statement to qualify universaly for all forms of Deeksha.


Signed AC from USA

== How old is the 2012 date? ==

The &quot;White Paper&quot; is dated to 1998. Let me know if you see an older mention. [[User:Shii|Shii]] [[user_talk:Shii|(tock)]] 04:05, 10 March 2010 (UTC)

== The [[2012 phenomenon]]—wording, references ==

Some brief points for now:

:::::He considers [[2012 phenomenon|2012 as a deadline]] for his teaching.&lt;ref&gt;Bengt Bivrin. &quot;[http://www.bivrin.se/Bengt/Examensuppsats_Bengt.pdf VI KÄNNER FÖR ATT VI HAR BEHOV]&quot;. Europeiska Psykosyntesuniversitetet, Stockholm.&lt;/ref&gt;

The Swedish PDF is totally unwikilike—it should not be used at all. Notes 68 and 69 in the article on the [[2012 phenomenon]] could be useful. Also, the sentence above should be rephrased. It is hardly intelligible as it stands, nor is the wording substantiated by any reference.

[[User:Accusativen hos Olsson|Accusativen hos Olsson]] ([[User talk:Accusativen hos Olsson|talk]]) 17:49, 12 April 2011 (UTC)

== ~Some stuck issue~ going on[[Special:Contributions/189.97.51.170|189.97.51.170]] ([[User talk:189.97.51.170|talk]]) 00:55, 21 November 2011 (UTC) ==

Hello. There is a going on thingy here. Vijaykumak has not claimed himself to be '''Kalki Bhagavan'''; that name was a popular name from villagers/popular people that are very hindu. So before Oneness University got huge, he was popularly known among population as that NICKNAME; but that name stuck - so you cannot say that NOW he is '''Kalki Bhagavan''' - THAT HAS NEVER ops sorry about the caps that has never been his fantasy name. Please reconsiver or refrain editions as well. [[Special:Contributions/189.97.51.170|189.97.51.170]] ([[User talk:189.97.51.170|talk]]) 00:55, 21 November 2011 (UTC)

: His organisation sometimes refers to him that way [http://www.onenessuniversity.org/index.php/sri-murthi-ceremony] and there don't seem to be many signs of him disowning the term.[[User:MatthewTStone|MatthewTStone]] ([[User talk:MatthewTStone|talk]]) 12:29, 21 November 2011 (UTC)

:: MatthewTStone what is the best way to put     1.1 Darshan   1.2 Litigation    1.3 Deaths    1.4 Opposition    1.5 Media ban on a single category? [[Special:Contributions/187.12.26.206|187.12.26.206]] ([[User talk:187.12.26.206|talk]]) 13:00, 21 November 2011 (UTC)

== ~Verify Neutrality [nutshell] gadget proposed ==

As we have seen some early editions on this article, there may have been unverifiable urls related to its main content. So for now on, to reffer this article meeting the ''Wikipedian'' quality, one should follow the [http://wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Terms_of_Use_2012 | Terms of use] as for May 25th. For more troubleshooting please visit [[Wikipedia:Verifiability|verifiability]], [[Wikipedia:Neutral point of view|neutrality]], and [[Wikipedia:No original research|avoiding original research]].  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/189.71.230.53|189.71.230.53]] ([[User talk:189.71.230.53|talk]]) 14:10, 27 April 2012 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== ~ A Nickname given is never often retrieved ==

The issue going on around who is &quot;Kalki&quot; or not may have created a new mithology around a person.
Please, for now on, take a look at this wikiarticle to get a small enlightenment for your intelectuality:

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nickname#Famous.2Ffictional_character


[[Special:Contributions/187.12.26.206|187.12.26.206]] ([[User talk:187.12.26.206|talk]]) 10:32, 3 July 2012 (UTC)

Previous edit as for Sept. 19th on section &quot;==DARSHAN==&quot; mentions: &quot;The price for a standard [[darshan]] with Bhagavan is Rs.5 [...]  for group darshan [...] is [...] Rs.5,000 and Rs. 20,000 for one-to-one darshan, as for March 2010.&quot;

The reference n. 6 is: (quote)indiasummary.com...(quote: see on history/prev's edit) .:This article on indiassummary.com is based on a &quot;Tehelka report&quot; but does not cite references. So, such report must be ref.'ed directly:.

CONCLUSION: Reference on item 6 leads to original research within the quality of opinion; in addition, must refer directly to the Tehelka report instead of relaying an article that mentions this report without a direct link.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/187.12.26.206|187.12.26.206]] ([[User talk:187.12.26.206|talk]]) 10:43, 21 September 2012 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== New Section - Influence ==

Had included a section &quot;influence&quot;, with details of some prominent people who are students of Sri Bhagavan. 
In this section, had referred to articles from national newspapers in India, including [[The Times of India]] and [[The Indian Express]] and [[The Hindu]]. Listed here are some of the links that had been referred to
&lt;ref&gt;http://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manisha-koirala-prays-at-kalki-ashram/article2654685.ece&lt;/ref&gt;
&lt;ref&gt;http://www.expressindia.com/latest-news/bollywood-calling-again/294758/&lt;/ref&gt;
&lt;ref&gt;http://articles.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/2009-09-05/news-interviews/28087184_1_duggu-hrithik-roshan-s-homepage-rakesh-roshan&lt;/ref&gt;

I find that this entire section has been deleted by &quot;MatthewTStone&quot; has deleted with the comments &quot;Reverting to version minus junk references etc&quot;

@MathewTStone, Request to explain the reasoning for deletion. Do let me know your suggestions on how to improve the quality of my writing.
Thanks for your attention
--[[User:Prodigyhk|Prodigyhk]] ([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]]) 06:23, 30 November 2012 (UTC)
: There is nothing much wrong with the quality of the writing. It is the quality of the sources that is a problem. Newspapers like Times of India, The Hindu, etc., might be acceptable, but self-published blogs and YouTube etc are not. Nor are references which are effectively 'self-published'  e.g Oneness websites and publicity material are not good sources for an article about the Oneness organisation itself, which is a money-making commercial entity. For a start, suggest reading http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Identifying_reliable_sources [[User:MatthewTStone|MatthewTStone]] ([[User talk:MatthewTStone|talk]]) 08:47, 30 November 2012 (UTC)

::Thanks Matthew for your feedback on quality of the source materials. Will review the references to ensure the quality of source is maintained. --[[User:Prodigyhk|Prodigyhk]] ([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]]) 03:18, 1 December 2012 (UTC)

:::After a while, we can say when those kind-of-reviews get too much time to change, the article can really get sticky somewhere and hence not develop; so welcome to wikipedia, where you really nead those bots on.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/187.12.26.206|187.12.26.206]] ([[User talk:187.12.26.206|talk]]) 17:37, 10 December 2012 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

::::[User:187.12.26.206] thanks for the welcome :) .. And what do you mean by &quot;nead those bots on&quot; ?[[User:Prodigyhk|Prodigyhk]] ([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]]) 10:49, 12 December 2012 (UTC)
:::::@([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]]) if you're still around this field here, note that what &lt;br &gt; [[Special:Contributions/187.12.26.206|187.12.26.206]]  &lt;/br&gt;  tried to say is that @([[User talk:MatthewTStone|talk]]) would be a [[bot]] but he really isn't he is a real user like you. [[Special:Contributions/177.158.129.70|177.158.129.70]] ([[User talk:177.158.129.70|talk]]) 15:23, 28 March 2013 (UTC)

== Unreliable information ==
@MathewTStone,  Please maintain the standard. Not only is the article you had reinstated filled with unreliable sources. It was a clear case of vandalism with WRONG and INSULTING information, mentioning that the subject is also known as &quot;Lauda Kameena Chand&quot;. --&gt; This is a very insulting word in local Indian language. 
We can not accept such deplorable and bad language in Wikipedia

Note - This entire section was first inserted on 15/Jan by user 46.9.71.74. It was immediately discovered as vandalism by administrator USER:Garion96 and removed. But, the user 46.9.71.74 has been persistent and keeps re-inserting. I have just followed the administrator and removed it when it was again inserted.

So, please read the material and also history before you start making your additions


[[User:Prodigyhk|Prodigyhk]] ([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]]) 16:31, 20 January 2013 (UTC)

: I take your point about an insulting word being included, and obviously this should not be included. However I think certain parts need to be reinstated, as they seem relevant, including news coverage from credible sources such as The Hindu. There have clearly been some 'incidents' at the temple, which have appeared in news reports. Also, there is at least one statement in there that needs a source, which is the claim about the founding of Jeevashram school in Rajupeta village. There is some indication that KB was known by his birth name of Veejay Kumar at that time, and that he was an 'administrator', not the founder of the school. During the revert, apart from some sources, the BLP tag was also removed. I would suggest that a blanket revert is not the way to remove items such as the vandalism. [[User:MatthewTStone|MatthewTStone]] ([[User talk:MatthewTStone|talk]]) 07:42, 21 January 2013 (UTC)

:::: [hoax] (?)
::::: ... [hoax] for fun facts: google Lauda Kameena Chand and see it for yourself! [[lol|hahahaha!]] [[Special:Contributions/177.158.129.70|177.158.129.70]] ([[User talk:177.158.129.70|talk]]) 15:29, 28 March 2013 (UTC)

==Biography==
New section to be included - This is work in progress. Will be adding more material over the next few days. Do put in your comments and criticism here before I post it to the article page.  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Prodigyhk|Prodigyhk]] ([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Prodigyhk|contribs]]) 14:25, 21 March 2013 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

: Will now update the  main article with this section.
: This section included to gives an encyclopedic narration of the subject's life and work, written in a neutral tone per WP standards.
: Any issues or questions or objections with the content, please do raise it here for talk or on my talk page. 
: Please do not to delete it without raising on talk.
: thanks [[User:Prodigyhk|Prodigyhk]] ([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]]) 16:41, 24 March 2013 (UTC)

:: The below section was put up for comments for 3 days in TALK before inclusion into main ARTICLE. Now, it has been pulled down. Request the other 2 active editors to comment here if you have any issues. The aricle is written in an neutral manner referred from independent sources. [[Arjuna Ardagh]] has a book published by an independent publisher. The second source is by a well known Indian journalist Suma Varghese whose details are available at http://www.lifepositive.com/writers/Suma_Varughese.asp Do note Life Positive is known Indian magazine and available at newstands.[[User:Prodigyhk|Prodigyhk]] ([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]]) 07:14, 25 March 2013 (UTC)
   

===Biography===

===Early years (1949 - 1983) === 
==== Family background ==== 
Sri Bhagavan was born on 7 March 1949 as Vijay Kumar, in Natham Village, Gudiyatham Town, Vellore district, Tamil Nadu, to Smt. Vaidarbhi Amma and Sri Varadarajulu.
Sri Bhagvan’s father was the head of the accounts department of [[Indian  Railways]] {{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=1,2}} and his mother was an simple village woman. {{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=1,2}}
In 1955, when Sri Bhagavan was 6 years of age, the family move to [[Madras|Chennai]].

==== Education ====
Sri Bhagavan attended the Don Bosco School, Madras{{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=1,2}}. Then,graduated  from Vaishnava college in Madras majoring in Mathematics. {{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=1,2}}

==== Marriage ====
Sri Bhagavan married Smt. Padmavathi on June 9, 1977. This was an arranged marriage following the prevalent customary practice in India for marriages decided by elders in the family.{{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=1,2}} Padmavathi, who is address as '''Amma''' by their students, was also a spiritual person and would take an active interest and participation in building the spiritual organization Oneness.{{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=1,2}}

===Jeevashram School (1984 - 1994) ===
Jeevashram School located in [[Chittoor]] District, [[Andhra Pradesh]] was founded by Sri Bhagavan, in July 1984 to provide an alternative form of education. The land for the school was taken on a lease, with the support provided by Mr. Hari Khoday , an Indian philanthropist. As director of the school, Sri Bhagawan's focus was to develop an environment for children to truly flower and discover themselves. The school had 180 residential students and 200 day students from near by villages. {{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=1,2}} It was at this school that his spiritual work would begin. In the summer of 1989, one of the students reported a mystical experience of divine silence. Soon, many other students reported similar experiences, and they were also able to pass their experiences to one another. During these experiences, children had vision of various Gods and would converse with them.  Sri Bhagavan explained that the children had got in touch with [[Antaryamin]], ''the inner guide who dwells in your heart'' that guides all beings towards greater truth {{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=1,2}}. In 1991, Sri Bhagawan decided to close the school and start the spiritual work for the larger community. The school was closed a few years later in 1994, after the senior students had all graduated from high school and the other students were moved to other schools. {{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=1,2}}

=== Spiritual programs for public (1991 to present) ===
Once the decision was made to close Jeevashram School, work started in developing the spiritual programs for the public.{{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=1,2}} The principal of the Jeevashram School with a small group of teachers started the spiritual programs for public. The workshops were conducted as residential retreat programs conducted over 7 days or 21 days. The workshop focused on  helping the participant ''accept themselves as they are'' &lt;ref&gt;{{cite news | last = Varughese | first = Suma  | work = Life Positive | title = Sri Bhagawan Kalki - The School of Enlightenment }} The class revolves around the concept of acceptance. Sounding like J.Krishnamurti or Eckhart Tolle, she tells us to practice 'sweekariyat', beginning with acceptance of the self. We are urged to look within and acknowledge all that is. She points out the suffering inherent in rejecting aspects of ourselves we do not approve of and of the false self we construct. She emphasizes the importance of 'experiencing' the moment, instead of resisting it. Bhagavan says, &quot;Seeing is the key thing in the dharma. Supposing jealousy is there, you must learn to see jealousy. To see is to be free.&quot; http://www.lifepositive.com/Spirit/Sri_Bhagwan_Kalki/The_School_for_Enlightenment92006.asp&lt;/ref&gt; and connect with their ''own inner divine self'' the [[Antaryamin]] &lt;ref&gt;{{cite news | last = Varughese | first = Suma  | work = Life Positive | title = Sri Bhagawan Kalki - The School of Enlightenment }}
&quot;Bhagavan says, 'The mind of man is like a wall which divides man from God. The deeksha is an electrical energy that makes a hole in this wall, which we call the mind. Once this happens, then God and man can come to relate to each other.&quot; .. A key concept is the importance of cultivating an intimate relationship with God, based not on fear or awe but friendship. &quot;God is your supreme friend,&quot; Bhagavan is reported to have said, and we are urged to argue with God, fight with him and compel him to hear our prayer, as we would with a real friend. I find this concept of the friendly God very attractive, for too often we distance ourselves from divinity out of a sense of unworthiness. http://www.lifepositive.com/Spirit/Sri_Bhagwan_Kalki/The_School_for_Enlightenment92006.asp&lt;/ref&gt;

A second campus was setup in 1992 near [[Chennai]] city a place called Somangalam. In 1994, the campus of Jeevashram School was renamed as Satyaloka. Advance retreat programs for public were conducted at this campus.  By 1995, Sri Bhagwan's workshops were being conducted in all major cities in India, including the capital [[New Delhi]]. In 1995, the first major public event was held at Chennai city, drawing more than 100,000 students from across India. In 1999, the work on building the Oneness University{{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=2}}  at [[Varadaiahpalem]], [[Chitoor]] district  [[Andhra Pradesh]]  India started. Oneness University, located 70 km from [[Chennai]], is accessible by the National Highway 5 and is on Tirupati Road leading to the ancient temple town of [[Kalahasthi]]. In 2000, the first campus was completed and Sri Bhagawan and his team of teachers moved to the campus. Over the next few years, various campuses, including the Oneness Temple in 2008&lt;ref&gt;{{cite news | last = Avadhani | first = Ramesh  | work = Religiscope | title = India: A visit to the Oneness Temple of Amma-Bhagawan}} Constructed by the Oneness organisation in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh, a new temple boasts of the largest pillar-less meditation hall in Asia--able to accommodate 8000 people. What is this building , and what is the Oneness movement, about which there are few studies? Indian journalist Ramesh Avadhani has recently visited the place. In the following document, he reports about his experience.  http://religion.info/english/documents/article_388.shtml#.UU8c8Bn652E&lt;/ref&gt; were built. In 2004, the first international program was started. {{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=2}}

===References===
{{reflist}}


===Editors, please include your comments below here ===
---&gt;&gt;&gt;
Have added my comments in new section. MStone 07:13, 25 March 2013 (UTC)

Mathew, The reference list picks up a few reference from earlier posting due to WP setting. Please take care not to get confused during review. The reference for this section only starts from Argadh [[User:Prodigyhk|Prodigyhk]] ([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]]) 06:46, 26 March 2013 (UTC)

==Does [[Asian Tribune]] pass [[WP:RS]]?==
A question has been raised about http://www.asiantribune.com/news/2010/01/14/two-kalki-ashram-inmates-found-dead  It seems Asian Tribune is cited in 500 Google Books. Not an enormous number but enough to show that asiantribune.com is regarded as a reliable source. [[World Institute for Asian Studies]] (WIAS) doesn't immediately appear to have an agenda. Comment anyone? [[User:In ictu oculi|In ictu oculi]] ([[User talk:In ictu oculi|talk]]) 12:25, 24 March 2013 (UTC)
: @In ictu oculi,  This article on AsianTribune.com refers to &quot;Deccan Chronicle&quot; as the source. But, unable to find any such article in &quot;Decann Chronicle&quot; nor in other Indian newspapers. With this entry on WP, we will give credibility to a wrong story. Until we have good sources, suggest not include this story.
: AsianTribune is not based in India and presently located outside Asia. [[User:Prodigyhk|Prodigyhk]] ([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]]) 12:37, 24 March 2013 (UTC)
:: Please note, have removed this from main article. Once we complete this talk, we can decide. thanks [[User:Prodigyhk|Prodigyhk]] ([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]]) 14:19, 24 March 2013 (UTC)

I have reverted [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Kalki_Bhagavan&amp;diff=546756743&amp;oldid=546692961 those changes] I'm afraid. We already had the discussion about his follower's biography. Generally we don't encourage followers of a controversial living figure to edit their BLP page extensively, which means that from now on changes should be discussed here first. The one change that does seem to have a case is that the crowd included CPI members, but then CPI is fairly mainstream in Chittoor, no reason why the crowd shouldn't. [[User:In ictu oculi|In ictu oculi]] ([[User talk:In ictu oculi|talk]]) 05:24, 25 March 2013 (UTC)

: 1. Do not find any WP:policy that stops the said biography being posted. It is written in neutral tone and include sources from independent publish works. An article written by Suma Varughese in a known Indian publication LifePostive and an independently published book by writer [[Arjuna Ardagh]]. It is not right to take the argument that Ardagh who has attended the courses conducted by this teacher, is a follower and not a reliable source. 
: In any case the biography insert that I had was worded in a neutral manner. Please explain what policy you refer to for removal of this biography. 
: 2. I have still not seen any legitimate source on the article of death of 2 men. refer earlier notes. So, this needs to be removed, until further clarity is arrived. [[User:Prodigyhk|Prodigyhk]] ([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]]) 06:01, 25 March 2013 (UTC)
:3. Regarding your comment &quot;then CPI is fairly mainstream in Chittoor&quot;, please refer [[Chittoor_district#Divisions]]. There no MLA from Communist Party in this district. So, how do you mention it is mainstream ?
: In any case, do not understand you logic not to refer the crowd as &quot;community party members&quot; as clearly mentioned in the source article. [[User:Prodigyhk|Prodigyhk]] ([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]]) 06:29, 25 March 2013 (UTC)

::The initial problem is that [[Arjuna Ardagh]] doesn't appear to be an independent source, he's writing for Kalki Bhagavan. [[User:In ictu oculi|In ictu oculi]] ([[User talk:In ictu oculi|talk]]) 09:06, 25 March 2013 (UTC)
:::: @Ictu, I have used Ardagh's notes for the basic run of the encyclopedic biography. Birth, parents, early education,  organizations setup, etc. These are general stuffs that makes up any person's encyclopedia. I do not see any issue for continuing to use Ardagh's reference for these.

:::: * For the specific sentence about what is offered at the workshop , -&gt; '' The workshop focused on helping the participant accept themselves as they are [6] and connect with their own inner divine self the Antaryamin [7]'' Have used for source a well known Indian journalist Suma Varghese whose details are available at http://www.lifepositive.com/writers/Suma_Varughese.asp[[User:Prodigyhk|Prodigyhk]] ([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]]) 11:14, 25 March 2013 (UTC)

:::I've restored your addition of [[Communist Party of India (Marxist)]], though having been to Chittoor I can tell you they are fairly mainstream there, and relatively clean. [[User:In ictu oculi|In ictu oculi]] ([[User talk:In ictu oculi|talk]]) 09:10, 25 March 2013 (UTC)
::::  My intent is not to blame the Communist party or question their sincerity. By replacing &quot;crowd&quot; with details of political nature of the riot, makes the article balanced per WP standard [[User:Prodigyhk|Prodigyhk]] ([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]]) 11:14, 25 March 2013 (UTC)

== Use of Wikipedia as a publicity vehicle ==

We need to be mindful that the subject of this article is the very head of a very wealthy organisation which would not hesitate to use Wikipedia as a publicity vehicle to further its commercial aims.

Most of the recently-removed Biography Section read as a sanitised Public Relations piece designed to perpetuate the mythology of its subject and his commercial activities.

It was also rather poorly sourced. According to WP:BLP, material must be &quot;attributed to a reliable, published source&quot; and its guidelines apply whether the &quot;material is negative, positive, neutral, or just questionable…&quot;

In particular, it relies heavily on Primary Sources. Please refer to WP:PRIMARY which defines Primary Sources as including those which &quot;are original materials that are close to an event, and are often accounts written by people who are directly involved&quot;. 

Books fitting this description are ''Deeksha: The Fire from Heaven'' and ''Awakening into Oneness'', which were both written by authors who became initiates/devotees of Kalki Bhagavan and were involved with the Oneness organisation through attending its courses. The organisation also appears to have endorsed these books in one way or another, which doesn't say much for the books' independence.

Moving on, the sources that are not WP:PRIMARY are a fairly rag-tag bunch (a clean up is in order, some links don't seem to go anywhere).

Strangely absent was anything that undermined the mythology of this so-called 'Bhagavan'. For example, why was there no mention of suggestions that Vijay Kumar, as he was then called, was at one time a mid-level administrator expelled from a Krishnamurti school? Or that he spent time as an insurance clerk? Or even maybe as a lowly rice seller? What about his alleged links to property developers?

Incidentally, the article could definitely use some coverage of his 'predictions', which never seem to come true – such as 'the ending of most religions' by 2012.

An overview of the citations is as follows:

^ Christian Aubert
''Du treizième baktun à la Terre.'' Not in English or apparently even very relevant to the subject matter. According to Amazon[http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=ntt_athr_dp_sr_1?_encoding=UTF8&amp;field-author=Christian%20Aubert&amp;search-alias=books&amp;sort=relevancerank] the author appears to mainly have written a series of Language translation books.

^ Geoff Stray 2012 
''In Your Pocket 2009 - Page 12''. This author [http://www.amazon.com/Geoff-Stray/e/B001TAD1S8] has written a series of books about 'predictions' for the year 2012. He doesn't appear to be much of an authority on anything much. I note that 2012 came to an end several months ago. 

^ Keta Meera Sahebu
Author appears to be a blogger[http://cosmic-civilizations.com] using WP for publicity. See author's User Talk page [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_talk:Keta_meera_sahebu]. Referring to Google Books, his 'book' appears to be an amateurish collection of tertiary references.

^ Luis González Reimann [http://www.concentric.net/-Kalki/World/Branchl/QuestionsStatic/qa34.htm.] Cannot comment. Source provided returns a 404 Error but appears to be some kind of blog  

^ Vicente Merlo 
Cannot comment. However, getting a bit desperate if we can't find decent references in English.

^ Kiara Windrider  ''Deeksha: The Fire from Heaven''
Appears to be a Primary Source[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:No_original_research] Foreword is written by representatives of the organisation. Book  based on the author's personal experiences, plus a series of interviews with fellow devotees at Oneness University.  

^ http://www.onenessuniversity.org/index.php/about-us/founders
Primary Source [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:No_original_research] – Completely unacceptable – organisation's own advertising and publicity material cannot be relied upon as a WP source.

^ a b c d e f g h i j k l 
Arjuna Ardagh ''Awakening into Oneness''
Appears to be a Primary Source [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:No_original_research]. Author was invited by Oneness Organisation to undergo its program and write the book. See [http://www.miraclesandinspiration.com/awakeningintooneness.html].

^[www.lifepositive.com/Spirit/Sri_Bhagwan_Kalki/The_School_for_Enlightenment92006.asp]
Appears to be a blog aggregation website or commercial site selling products/services

^ http://religion.info/english/documents/article_388.shtml#.UU8c8Bn652E
A bit better overall. At least the coverage by Ramesh Avadhani shows a degree of balance.

Editor @prodigyhk, Wikipedia is not a publicity vehicle for organisations wanting to peddle their wares. [[User:MatthewTStone|MatthewTStone]] ([[User talk:MatthewTStone|talk]]) 06:45, 25 March 2013 (UTC)

:: Mathey, Initially when I started last year, you gave me the same treatment and removed all edits. Accepting your seniority, had let go of this article and move to other articles. But, when this article was moved to Afd, checked your contribution. It is seen that over the past 4 years, you have treated the same way any editor who has added any neutral or postive edits on this article. Your primary focus has been only on adding to the &quot;controversy&quot; section and not allow other positive or neutral information. Your agenda it is to make this an ATTACK page of the subject.  [[User:Prodigyhk|Prodigyhk]] ([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]]) 07:35, 25 March 2013 (UTC)
:::Prodigy, it isn't an issue of &quot;seniority&quot; or treatment, [[WP:PSTS]] and [[WP:NPOV]] are wikipedia policies, if you had been on en.wp for 10 years and other editors for 10 days  [[WP:PSTS]] and [[WP:NPOV]] are wikipedia policies and we must have objective 3rd party sources for all BLPs. [[User:In ictu oculi|In ictu oculi]] ([[User talk:In ictu oculi|talk]]) 09:12, 25 March 2013 (UTC)
:: Matthew, you have made a long note above. As a colleague, I should have responded objectively and avoided my earlier rant. Now, moving forward :) my comments below specific to the biography section that is planned to include in the article. 
:: Life Positive is a spiritual magazine available in India. I have given above, links of the editor whose article has been used.
::  Ardagh is a  known writer in the area of spirituality even before he wrote this book on Oneness. In the book, he had recorded what he had encountered and experienced during his visit. Hence has to be treated as a secondary source. 
:: In any case, even if you prefer to treat Ardagh as a primary source, [[WP:Selfpub]] allow us to use primary source if ''the material is neither unduly self-serving nor an exceptional claim''. The materials in &quot;biography&quot; section that I plan to include refers to Ardagh book is presented in neutral tone as required by WP policy.
:: Look forward to your comments  [[User:Prodigyhk|Prodigyhk]] ([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]]) 14:18, 25 March 2013 (UTC)
::: There are significant question marks hanging over many of the biographical claims made by VK/KB, his organisation, and his devotees. The book by Ardagh, a devotee, cannot be considered a reliable source. You will need to find reliable third party sources for any biographical material. Please also take note that NPOV is not just about 'tone'. It is about '...fairly representing all majority and significant-minority viewpoints published by reliable sources, in rough proportion to the prominence of each view...' [[User:MatthewTStone|M Stone]] ([[User talk:MatthewTStone|talk]]) 21:53, 25 March 2013 (UTC)
:::: Please be objective. My request is on review of the section 'biograhpy' I have created for inclusion in this article. It is written in a neutral tone and primarily in an encyclopedic manner detailing this person's life and his work. List your concerns clearly. [[User:Prodigyhk|Prodigyhk]] ([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]]) 03:21, 26 March 2013 (UTC)
::::: The version provided above on the Talk Page contains citations that don't link to anything. Please update it with working citations, and I will provide a detailed list of concerns. Thanks. [[User:MatthewTStone|M Stone]] ([[User talk:MatthewTStone|talk]]) 04:50, 26 March 2013 (UTC)
:::::: Done. [[User:Prodigyhk|Prodigyhk]] ([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]]) 06:53, 26 March 2013 (UTC)

== Unverified biographical material ==

Editor @ProdigyHK, almost every significant point in this biographical section is contestable and cannot appear on Wikipedia in its current form. For its key points, it relies almost exclusively on a single source, Ardagh, that is very close to the subject of the article, Vijay Kumar/'Kalki Bhagavan'.

To give one example of the source's unreliability, according to this author, Vijay Kumar/'Kalki Bhagavan' was the sole 'founder' of the Jeevashram School. 

However, as even a bit of perfunctory research will reveal, there are are one or more other individuals in India who are claiming to be closely involved with the founding of the school, and may want to be known as co-founders. These individuals have had a very serious falling out with VK/KB, and have been very public in doing so. Over the years, they have been highly critical of his actions.

If Ardagh cannot be relied upon as a source in this fundamental point, it demonstrates quite adequately that his book is not a reliable source for anything else. (Incidentally, Wikipedia can be leaving itself open to legal action from such individuals if it publishes unsourced biographical material.)

By his own admission, the author was a VIP guest of VK/KB who has endorsed the book. So the author is merely repeating, in parrot fashion, what he has been told by VK/KB or his followers. In other words, the book is a very low grade Primary Source about a highly controversial subject.

There also seem to be many gaps in this biography, e.g. VK/KB's employment by the Life Insurance Corporation of India, and as a vendor selling rice. At another point in his life, VK/KB appears to have been in employment as a low to mid-level administrator in J. Krishnamurti's [[Rishi Valley School]]. There are suggestions that he was fired from that position.

I believe these periods, and others, have been excluded because they do not sound impressive and do not fit with the messianic 'life quest' of VK/KB's mythology. Such omitting of 'unimpressive' information is time-worn literary device for placing emphasis on the more 'impressive' aspects of the subject matter at hand. It is sometimes called 'cherry picking'. (See WP:CHERRY and WP:UNDUE)

Furthermore, as another example of WP:UNDUE: there is nothing remarkable in the Family Background section, and it appears to have been created as a literary device, as part of the 'messianic' story. It serves to contrast the subject's latter-day 'god-like' status with his 'humble' birth and origins. Please also see WP:V and WP:BLP. 

Also refer to WP:UNDUE regarding the 'Jeevashram School'. A lot of weight seems to be placed on this school, which does not itself appear particularly notable as an institution.

In the section 'Spiritual programs for public (1991 to present)' there also seems to be a lot of non-biographical detail about programs and campuses, and it even provides directions for reaching the temple/campus. In parts, it reads like an advertisement. I refer you also to WP:NOTADVERTISING#ADVERTISING and WP:SOAP

As I have said, almost every contestable point in this 'biography' relies on one, single, Primary Source, Ardagh's book. And that book aside, most of the other sources being cited here are merely pointing to topics such as low level trivia about Bollywood movie stars praying at the ashram, etc., and do nothing whatsoever for the veracity of this biographical material. There is also a PDF, apparently in Swedish (what is it about? This is an English publication).

As highlighted previously, part from what is being discussed here, the only reasonably independent sources being cited on the [[Kalki Bhagavan]] main page are news organisations such as [[The Hindu]], [[India Times]], and [[The Statesman]]. However, almost all of the material from these independent sources is raising questions about this individual and his organisation. 

@ProdigyHK, it is significant that you have, at times, resorted to edit wars to try and prevent such sources being used, and somewhat suggests there may be a conflict of interest. Please see WP:COI.

The burden now rests with you to provide adequate, independent references for this biographical material. 

Please note, in the following, in many cases I have placed a {{Citation needed|date=}} template against specific words. This means if the template is after the word 'founded', I would like to see a reference that says KB/VK was solely responsible for 'founding' the school, and did not 'co-found' it with other individuals; if it is next to the word 'decision', it means I would like a reference that he 'made a decision' to close the school, and that the decision was not forced upon him by external factors; if is next to 'majored' then the reference should support the assertion that he 'majored' in mathematics, etc., throughout :

&lt;b&gt;Biography&lt;/b&gt;

&lt;b&gt;Early years (1949 - 1983) &lt;/b&gt;

&lt;b&gt;Family background &lt;/b&gt; 

Sri Bhagavan was born on 7 March 1949 as Vijay Kumar, in Natham Village, Gudiyatham Town, Vellore district, Tamil Nadu, to Smt. Vaidarbhi Amma and Sri Varadarajulu.
Sri Bhagvan’s father was the head of the accounts department of [[Indian  Railways]]{{Citation needed|date=}} {{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=1,2}} and his mother was an simple village woman. {{Citation needed|date=}} {{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=1,2}}
In 1955, when Sri Bhagavan was 6 years of age, the family move to [[Madras|Chennai]].)

&lt;b&gt;Education &lt;/b&gt;

Sri Bhagavan attended{{Citation needed|date=}} the Don Bosco School, Madras{{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=1,2}}. Then graduated{{Citation needed|date=}}  from Vaishnava college in Madras majoring{{Citation needed|date=}} in Mathematics. {{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=1,2}}

&lt;b&gt;Marriage &lt;/b&gt;

Sri Bhagavan married Smt. Padmavathi on June 9, 1977. This was an arranged marriage following the prevalent customary practice in India for marriages decided by elders in the family.{{Citation needed|date=}}{{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=1,2}} Padmavathi, who is address as '''Amma''' by their students, was also a spiritual person and would take an active interest and participation{{Citation needed|date=}} in building the spiritual organization Oneness.{{Citation needed|date=}}{{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=1,2}}

&lt;b&gt;Jeevashram School (1984 - 1994) &lt;/b&gt;

Jeevashram School located in [[Chittoor]] District, [[Andhra Pradesh]] was founded{{Citation needed|date=}} by Sri Bhagavan, in July 1984 to provide {{Citation needed|date=}}an alternative form of education. The land for the school was taken on a lease{{Citation needed|date=}}, with the support provided{{Citation needed|date=}} by Mr. Hari Khoday , an Indian philanthropist{{Citation needed|date=}}. As director{{Citation needed|date=}} of the school, Sri Bhagawan's focus was to develop an environment for children to truly flower and discover themselves. The school had 180{{Citation needed|date=}}  residential students and 200{{Citation needed|date=}} day students from near by villages. {{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=1,2}} It was at this school that his spiritual work would begin. In the summer of 1989, one of the students reported{{Citation needed|date=}} a mystical experience of divine silence. Soon, many other students reported{{Citation needed|date=}} similar experiences, and they were also able to pass their experiences to one another. During these experiences, children had vision of various Gods and would converse with them.  Sri Bhagavan explained that the children had got in touch with [[Antaryamin]], ''the inner guide who dwells in your heart'' that guides all beings towards greater truth {{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=1,2}}. In 1991, Sri Bhagawan decided {{Citation needed|date=}} to close the school and start{{Citation needed|date=}} the spiritual work for the larger community. The school was closed a few years later in 1994{{Citation needed|date=}}, after the senior students had all graduated from high school and the other students were moved to other schools.{{Citation needed|date=}} {{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=1,2}}

&lt;b&gt;Spiritual programs for public (1991 to present) &lt;/b&gt;

Once the decision {{Citation needed|date=}} was made to close Jeevashram School, work started in developing the spiritual programs for the public.{{Citation needed|date=}}{{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=1,2}} The principal of the Jeevashram School with a small group of teachers started the spiritual programs for public{{Citation needed|date=}}. The workshops were conducted as residential retreat programs conducted over 7 days or 21 days. The workshop focused on  helping the participant ''accept themselves as they are'' &lt;ref&gt;{{cite news | last = Varughese | first = Suma  | work = Life Positive | title = Sri Bhagawan Kalki - The School of Enlightenment }} The class revolves around the concept of acceptance. Sounding like J.Krishnamurti or Eckhart Tolle, she tells us to practice 'sweekariyat', beginning with acceptance of the self. We are urged to look within and acknowledge all that is. She points out the suffering inherent in rejecting aspects of ourselves we do not approve of and of the false self we construct. She emphasizes the importance of 'experiencing' the moment, instead of resisting it. Bhagavan says, &quot;Seeing is the key thing in the dharma. Supposing jealousy is there, you must learn to see jealousy. To see is to be free.&quot; http://www.lifepositive.com/Spirit/Sri_Bhagwan_Kalki/The_School_for_Enlightenment92006.asp&lt;/ref&gt; and connect with their ''own inner divine self'' the [[Antaryamin]] &lt;ref&gt;{{cite news | last = Varughese | first = Suma  | work = Life Positive | title = Sri Bhagawan Kalki - The School of Enlightenment }}
&quot;Bhagavan says, 'The mind of man is like a wall which divides man from God. The deeksha is an electrical energy{{Citation needed|date=}} that makes a hole in this wall, which we call the mind. Once this happens, then God and man can come to relate to each other.&quot; .. A key concept is the importance of cultivating an intimate relationship with God, based not on fear or awe but friendship. &quot;God is your supreme friend,&quot; Bhagavan is reported to have said, and we are urged to argue with God, fight with him and compel him to hear our prayer, as we would with a real friend. I find this concept of the friendly God very attractive, for too often we distance ourselves from divinity out of a sense of unworthiness. http://www.lifepositive.com/Spirit/Sri_Bhagwan_Kalki/The_School_for_Enlightenment92006.asp&lt;/ref&gt;

A second campus was setup in 1992{{Citation needed|date=}} near [[Chennai]] city a place called Somangalam. In 1994, the campus of Jeevashram School was renamed {{Citation needed|date=}} as Satyaloka. Advance retreat programs for public were conducted at this campus.  By 1995, Sri Bhagwan's workshops were being conducted in all major cities{{Citation needed|date=}} in India, including the capital [[New Delhi]] {{Citation needed|date=}}. In 1995, the first major public event was held at Chennai city, drawing more than 100,000 students {{Citation needed|date=}} from across India. In 1999, the work on building the Oneness University{{Citation needed|date=}} {{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=2}}  at [[Varadaiahpalem]], [[Chitoor]] district  [[Andhra Pradesh]]  India started. 

Oneness University, located 70 km from [[Chennai]], is accessible by the National Highway 5 and is on Tirupati Road leading to the ancient temple town of [[Kalahasthi]]. In 2000, the first campus was completed and Sri Bhagawan and his team of teachers moved to the campus. Over the next few years, various campuses, including the Oneness Temple in 2008&lt;ref&gt;{{cite news | last = Avadhani | first = Ramesh  | work = Religiscope | title = India: A visit to the Oneness Temple of Amma-Bhagawan}} Constructed by the Oneness organisation in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh, a new temple boasts of the largest pillar-less meditation hall in Asia--able to accommodate 8000 people. What is this building , and what is the Oneness movement, about which there are few studies? Indian journalist Ramesh Avadhani has recently visited the place. In the following document, he reports about his experience.  http://religion.info/english/documents/article_388.shtml#.UU8c8Bn652E&lt;/ref&gt; were built. In 2004, the first international program was started. {{Citation needed|date=}}{{sfn|Ardagh|2008|ch=2}}

===References===
{{reflist}}



As I have noted previously, Vijaykumar/'Kalki Bhagavan' and his organisation are experts at re-writing history to suit their own ends. 

For what it's worth, it should be noted that there are many socially damaging aspects to his activities, and those of the Oneness organisation. Particularly in the way he and his followers have exploited superstitions about his perceived 'godman' status, enabling them to take a great deal of money over the years from poor people in India. There also seem to be significant issues in the way the organisation has treated local villagers in the area around its headquarters. There are many, many, unanswered questions about its financial dealings, and the channeling of untaxed funds for personal gain.

This so-called 'Kalki Bhagavan' is a controversial figure, and any biographical material must be rigorously sourced. Wikipedia cannot be party to any deception on behalf of him, his family, his organisation, or his followers.  [[User:MatthewTStone|M Stone]] ([[User talk:MatthewTStone|talk]]) 03:58, 27 March 2013 (UTC)

== Note to User:MathewTStone  ==

This is a Wikipedia page. Not your personal blog. So you are required to stick to the WP policy on neutrality and balanced coverage.
Require you to read through the complete [[WP:BLP]]. Below are some notes for your quick understanding.

* [[WP:BLP]] - &quot;Biographies of living persons (&quot;BLP&quot;s) must be written conservatively and with regard for the subject's privacy. Wikipedia is an encyclopedia, not a tabloid: it is not Wikipedia's job to be sensationalist, or to be the primary vehicle for the spread of titillating claims about people's lives: the possibility of harm to living subjects must always be considered when exercising editorial judgment. This policy applies to any living person mentioned in a BLP, whether or not that person is the subject of the article, and to material about living persons in other articles and on other pages, including talk pages.[3] The burden of evidence for any edit on Wikipedia rests with the person who adds or restores material&quot;
* [[WP:WELLKNOWN]]  [[WP:BLPGOSSIP]] If you cannot find multiple reliable third-party sources, leave it out. Avoid repeating gossip.

[[User:Prodigyhk|Prodigyhk]] ([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]]) 17:15, 31 March 2013 (UTC)

:: You recently deleted a conversation from your User Talk Page which indicates you are editing on behalf of someone else. Who is that person? Vijay Kumar, his wife, son, or someone from the Oneness organisation? You have requested feedback from other editors on the 'biographical' material that you have submitted above. I have provided my feedback in great detail. This page isn't going to advance much further until you address the points I have raised. I will be reviewing your edits very carefully indeed, and anything not supported by independent sources may be removed. e.g. a self-published 'White Paper' is not a reliable source, nor is anything endorsed by the Oneness organisation. No one is repeating gossip. Everything I add is backed up by independent sources.Your own motives are highly questionable [[User:MatthewTStone|M Stone]] ([[User talk:MatthewTStone|talk]]) 20:39, 31 March 2013 (UTC)

::: User:Mathew Timothy Stone, Your edits on this articles over the past 3 years, raise several questions concerning your level of knowledge of and/or adherence to conventional wikipedia rules and policies concerning neutral editing. You have strong negative opinion about the subject of this article. You have kept perusing your negative point in the article and in non-article space. You have also kept removing any other edits that are neutral or opposing your POV. Your edit patterns, are highly disruptive and, if unchecked, may require administrator intervention. [[User:Prodigyhk|Prodigyhk]] ([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]]) 15:50, 1 April 2013 (UTC)

:::: Please respond to the multiple issues raised here and on your User Talk Page [[User:MatthewTStone|M Stone]] ([[User talk:MatthewTStone|talk]]) 20:07, 1 April 2013 (UTC)

::::: Mathew, to answer your questions:
::::: I am not editing on behalf of anyone. It is done in my personal time.
::::: Have seen your feedback on the biography section. Presently busy at my job and kids have holidays. So, time is tight. Will get back to it, once things settle down and after we resolve our edit differences :) 
::::: Do request you to have an honest review of your own edit patterns of this wiki article. You carry a very negative personal opinion about Kalki Bhagavan. This is not allowing you to collaborate with other editors who have different opinions.  [[User:Prodigyhk|Prodigyhk]] ([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]]) 10:32, 2 April 2013 (UTC)

== Issues relating to 'Kalki' and other titles and names ==

There are a number of issues relating to Vijay Kumar's name and title. It seems that in his early years, he was quite happy to be known as 'Kalki Bhagavan'. In recent years he, and his organisation, are trying to claim that he is simply 'Sri Bhagavan'. or 'Sri Amma Bhagavan'. I believe this is related to issues with the Indian legal system, which takes a dim view of anyone claiming to be 'Kalki', (i.e. an avatar of a Hindu deity). Needless to say, it would be embarrassing for the Oneness organisation if their so-called 'avatar' was dragged in front of a court. This is also a possible explanation for describing his ashram as a 'university', as this is likely to deflect attention, and make it appear more 'secular'. I have removed any names or titles except Vijay Kumar and Kalki Bhagavan, along with references to his so-called 'university'. [[User:MatthewTStone|M Stone]] ([[User talk:MatthewTStone|talk]]) 20:38, 2 April 2013 (UTC)
: The only issue is that WP has been stick with you, a bigoted editor [[User:MatthewTStone|Mathew Timothy Stone]] who keeps deleting every other edit that does not meet your rabid negative view[[User:Prodigyhk|Prodigyhk]] ([[User talk:Prodigyhk|talk]]) 05:40, 9 April 2013 (UTC)
:: Please maintain a civil tone in discussions. Everyone is entitled to their views. The indications on your talk page are that you are editing on behalf of someone who is close to the subject. You are also editing using sources close to the subject. I suggest you find independent sources to support any edits. [[User:MatthewTStone|M Stone]] ([[User talk:MatthewTStone|talk]]) 21:35, 9 April 2013 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>