<article id="43350796" title=Talk:Buso Renkin/GA1>
	<talkpage id="43350796" title="Talk:Buso Renkin/GA1">
==GA Review==
{{Good article tools}}
&lt;noinclude&gt;{{al|{{#titleparts:Buso Renkin/GA1|-1}}|noname=yes}}&lt;br/&gt;&lt;/noinclude&gt;&lt;includeonly&gt;:''This review is [[WP:transclusion|transcluded]] from [[Talk:Buso Renkin/GA1]]. The edit link for this section can be used to add comments to the review.''&lt;/includeonly&gt;

'''Reviewer:''' [[User:Tintor2|Tintor2]]&amp;nbsp;([[User talk:Tintor2|talk]] '''·''' [[Special:Contributions/Tintor2|contribs]]) 16:32, 20 July 2014 (UTC)

&lt;!-- Please add all review comments below this comment, and do not alter what is above. So that the review can be kept within a single section, please do not use level 2 headers (==...==) below to break up the review. Use level 3 (===...===), level 4 and so on.--&gt;

The article is in pretty good shape but there are still some minor issues to fix:
*The production section should start with &quot;Watsuki started writing Buso Renkin thinking it would be his last shōnen manga;&quot; The current way of starting the section seems a bit random.
*Linking in references is a bit inconsistent. Try to have all link or all unlinked due to UNDUE WEIGHT.
*Maybe some major focus could be given to the manga. Have for manga out of the media section. Change the media section to &quot;related media&quot; to make it clear this article primarily focuses on the manga. Manga and production could be written under a section named publication. This is just a suggestion based on previous arguments within the project.
*The lead's first paragraph could have a reference to production about how it was Watsuki's last shonen or something like that.
Anyway, nice work in the article guys. Good work.[[User:Tintor2|Tintor2]] ([[User talk:Tintor2|talk]]) 16:32, 20 July 2014 (UTC)
:Hey, [[User:Tintor2|Tintor2]], thanks for the review! I've rewritten the production and added a bit of it to the lead. About the linking, I've planned to link the names in the first instance it appeared. (When you reviewed it wasn't that way; I guess I've fixed it now). The only thing I don't applied was your third suggestion. I like both formatting; however, even if discussions were done, no alteration was done in the [[MOS:AM]] (one of our best articles [FA] still using this format [[School Rumble]]). If an official alteration is made, I'll not oppose to it, though. [[User:Gabriel Yuji|Gabriel Yuji]] ([[User talk:Gabriel Yuji|talk]]) 18:24, 20 July 2014 (UTC)

::Okay. Let's do it.[[User:Tintor2|Tintor2]] ([[User talk:Tintor2|talk]]) 21:30, 20 July 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>