<article id="4613029" title=Talk:The Pharcyde>
	<talkpage id="4613029" title="Talk:The Pharcyde">
{{WikiProject Biography
|living=yes
|class=start
|musician-work-group=yes
|listas=Pharcyde, The
}}
{{WikiProject Hip hop}}
== Back in the day ==

did Pharcyde make that song? --[[User:Jibberjab|Jibberjab]] 19:24, 3 July 2006 (UTC)

:No, it was Ahmad. See [[Ahmad (rapper)]] and [[Back in the Day (Ahmad song)]]. I saw a link or two on a Google search saying Pharcyde remixed the song, but I don't know whether that's accurate. [[User:Gram123|Gram]] 13:22, 11 July 2006 (UTC)

um, [[KJ-52]] has a song named that.

Also, Fat Lip apparently did a collab with [[LA Symphony]] [http://www.hiphopmp3downloads.com/downloads/LA%20Symphony%20feat%20Fatlip%20-%20What%20You%20Say.mp3

== Tre Hardson ==

Someone should make a page about him, the guy does have a solo career and all.

==Article image==
I've received notification that the main image on this article is likely to be removed under the '''&lt;nowiki&gt;{{Replaceable fair use}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;''' rationale, which states that &quot;it illustrates a subject for which a free image could reasonably be found or created&quot;.

If anyone has (or can source) a suitable free image of The Pharcyde, that could replace the one currently used, please upload it and replace the existing image. Alternatively, if anyone wishes to contest the decision to remove this picture, please edit [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image:ThePharcyde_promophoto.jpg the image page], add the '''&lt;nowiki&gt;{{Replaceable fair use disputed}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;''' template and provide justification on that page as to why it should be retained as a fair use image. [[User:Gram123|Gram]] 15:53, 15 November 2006 
(UTC)

[[Fatlip]] wrote his lyrics to the song &quot;Oh Shit&quot;, was based on what happened. He was telling in a documentary interview saying that he actually dated a [[transvestite]].Here a link to prove it. [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=exT-1cYFHzM]

== Who tooke out bootie brown's page ==

i remember he had a page on wiki why was it deleted?  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/87.16.164.253|87.16.164.253]] ([[User talk:87.16.164.253|talk]]) 20:04, 21 June 2011 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Associated with The Roots -- how? ==

The infobox claims that The Pharcyde is associated with [[The Roots]], but it's not clear how. The article doesn't make any mentions of the band. ✎ &lt;span style=&quot;-moz-border-radius:4px;-webkit-border-radius:4px;font-size:10px;padding:2px;border:1px solid black&quot;&gt;[[User:HannesP|HannesP]] · [[User_talk:HannesP|talk]]&lt;/span&gt; 02:19, 21 May 2013 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>