<article id="313054" title=Talk:White nationalism>
	<talkpage id="715827" title="Talk:White nationalism/Archive 1">
{{talkarchive}}

Before this page goes any further, I think it should be expanded into &quot;racial nationalism&quot; or something like that, so include all such movements (e.g. black nationalist movements in Africa, etc.).
------------------------------------------------------

I think the use here of &quot;caucasians&quot; is bizarre as white nationalists are presumably against actual caucasians. I understand that caucasian may be (incorrectly) used as an American euphamism for white but it is strange to use it in an encyclopedia. [[User:Secretlondon|Secretlondon]] 18:04, Nov 24, 2003 (UTC)

----------------------------------------------------

The term &quot;Caucasian&quot; has a long history of anthropological usage to describe the &quot;race&quot; that &quot;white&quot; Europeans, Middle Eastern, North African, and Southwest Asians supposedly belong to. There is really no other widely understood label that means the exact thing. Many Americans use the term, somewhat incorrectly, to simply mean &quot;white&quot;, but that wasn't my point.

My point was that &quot;White Nationalists&quot; or Supremacists generally have a view of &quot;white&quot; that excludes people who general American, British, Australian or other such societies would consider white, such as Jews, native European Muslims (i.e. Balkan Muslims), and perhaps even Slavs. Anyway, any definition of &quot;white&quot; is bound to be subject to individual prejudices or viewpoints.

== Who is White ==

The writer of the below listed statement 
&quot; Hispanics, Portuguese, and Italian people may or may not be considered white, based on regional backgrounds (Basque Spaniards and Northern Italians may be accepted while Sicilians and Puerto Ricans aren't).&quot; seems to have a very limited knowledge of the concepts of race, culture and ethnicity. Puerto Rico, much like the US is a place inhabited by people of differing races, and or ethnicties. Among the population one can find people who are White, Black and or of mixed racial stock. As for Sicillians? I have seen many who can be mistaken for Nordics!
Waldemar Freyre
--------------------------
from Svigor - sorry if I'm posting this in someone else's space, I'm a Wikipedia noob.  Rick said I should discuss my extensive edits in &quot;talk&quot; and this is the only place I could see to post my comment.  Is this the right place, or am I missing something?
Okay, now I see how it works.  I'd be happy to find a good place to discuss this.  I'm a White Nationalist, and I have a pretty good handle on current White Nationalist thinking, and the original article was far less than satisfactory.

I understand that this article is not likely to end up as a presentation of White Nationalism from a WN p.o.v., but I think it's fair to at least include both sides of the argument.

&quot;I think the use here of &quot;caucasians&quot; is bizarre as white nationalists are presumably against actual caucasians. I understand that caucasian may be (incorrectly) used as an American euphamism for white but it is strange to use it in an encyclopedia.&quot;

You're essentially correct.  The proper term is Caucasoid, not Caucasian.  They have the same etymological origin, but the two words have quite different meanings.


Haha, I just found this:
http://www.nationmaster.com/encyclopedia/White-nationalism
So which is chicken and which is egg?

&quot;and perhaps even Slavs.&quot;
No, you're thinking of the Third Reich.  In my experience, less than oh, one percent of all White Nationalists consider Slavs non-white.  In fact, in my two years posting and reading regularly at Stormfront.org, I think I 'might' have heard ONE person refer to slavs as non-white.

Nationmaster is a mirror of Wikipedia. The nationmaster entry is presumably out of date. And I agree about the use of term caucasian. [[User:Secretlondon|Secretlondon]] 10:39, 8 Jun 2004 (UTC)

==Proposed Rewrite==

Okay, I'm going to post my proposed version of the entry for White Nationalism, so we can discuss it and I can address any issues people have with it:

'''White Nationalism''' is a form of racial nationalism, an [[identity  politics|identity movement]] that argues that white people should live (or at least be allowed to live) separately from non-whites in order to maintain their racial distinctiveness and preserve their culture and way of life. Some people assume that White Nationalism is related to &quot;[[White supremacism]]&quot; although the two concepts actually stand in opposition by their very definition since White  Nationalism advocates separation and the rights of a people of common genetic and cultural heritage to have sovereign rule over itself, while supremacism advocates racial supremacy and oppression.

One of the major driving forces behind White Nationalism is a double standard perceived by its members as prevalent in western civilization that allows, even encourages racial and ethnic nationalism among non-whites, and suppresses and pathologizes it among whites. 

The term &quot;[[race]]&quot; holds value for White Nationalists, who base their personal identity upon genetic characteristics to varying degrees. Unlike  egalitarianism, White Nationalism argues that race is real and entails significant human group differences in behavioral psychology, social identity, and physiology. 

The term White Nationalist has been used by [[Neo-Nazi]], [[Ku Klux Klan]],  [[Christian Identity]] and [[Aryan Nations]] groups, which have generally  overlapping ideologies based on the perceived necessity to maintain white racial integrity.

Partially as a result of the violent and radical image of some of the white supremacist groups, a growing number of White Nationalists have adopted less hostile rhetoric, and portray themselves as [[conservatism|conservatives]] interested in maintaining traditional values, including white dominance in American life. Many of these groups do not advocate white supremacy and instead call for white separatism.  Some reject the label of &quot;racist&quot; in favor of &quot;racialist&quot; or &quot;racial realist&quot; due to the popular misconception that racism requires racial hatred.

[[American Renaissance (group)|American Renaissance]] and the [[Council of Conservative Citizens]] are two leading examples of mainstream White Nationalist organizations in the  United States. In Europe, several &quot;far&quot; right political parties such as the [[British National Party]], France's [[Front National]], and the [[Austrian Freedom Party]] have won fairly wide support based on platforms characterized by the mass media as advocating racial separatism in addition to traditional nationalism. Some critics of more mainstream conservativism in the United States and the United Kingdom go further and claim an undercurrent of white nationalism exists in right wing politics (i.e  [[Willie Horton]], [[Pat Buchanan]], [[Pete Wilson]], [[Enoch Powell]])- a  charge most conservatives bitterly contest.

White Nationalists often have a definition of whiteness that is narrower than that in mainstream usage.  Many White Nationalists use cultural as well as  genetic criteria for determining whiteness: one oft-cited rule of thumb is that a white person is a &quot;descendant of European Christendom.&quot;  Others use  strictly genetic criteria, without cultural distinctions.  Jews and Muslims are rarely considered white by White Nationalists, even if they appear to be European, mostly for historical and cultural reasons: many White Nationalists argue that both groups are already represented by their own forms of racial nationalism. Others exclude them based on the &quot;descendants of European Christendom&quot; cultural-genetic criterion above.

In white minority nations such as South Africa or some Latin American states, there are often arguments for white homelands as well.

== See also ==
*[[nationalism]]
*[[segregation]]
*[[Black nationalism]]
*[[Jewish nationalism]]

==External links==
* [http://www.stormfront.org Stormfront.org (white pride discussion forum)]
* [http://amren.com American Renaissance (White Nationalist news &amp; editorials)]
* [http://www.nationalvanguard.org/ National Alliance (White Nationalist advocacy group &amp; news site)]
* [http://home.ddc.net/ygg/ Yggdrasil's WN Library (White Nationalist literature)]
* [http://www.vdare.com/ VDare (quasi-White Nationalist news &amp; editorials)]
* [http://www.mugu.com/cgi-bin/Upstream/Root Upstream (&quot;intellectual heterodoxy&quot;)]
* [http://www.thornwalker.com/ditch/ The Last Ditch (pro-western libertarianism)]
* [http://www.lagriffedulion.f2s.com/ La Griffe du Lion (science of race)]
* [http://www.lrainc.com/swtaboo/index.html Stalking the Wild Taboo (science of race)]

==Critique of Existing Entry==

&lt;i&gt;These are excerpts from the original, along with my problems with them in bold:&lt;/i&gt;

White nationalism is a term given to an identity movement that argues that white people (sometimes incorrectly called &quot;caucasians&quot;) should live separately from non-whites in order to maintain racial purity, and preserve their culture and way of life.

&lt;b&gt;I feel that the fact that White Nationalism is a subset of racial nationalism is worth mentioning from the outset. &quot;[S]ometimes incorrectly called &quot;caucasians&quot; belongs in a footnote, not in the exposition.&lt;/b&gt;

&lt;b&gt;When the idea that whites should live separately is mentioned, it's worth mentioning that there is a WIDE variety of opinion within White Nationalism on this subject.  Some feel that repealing laws which infringe on white freedom of association is sufficient, and do not advocate legally-enforced separation.  In the middle, there's the majority opinion that separatist WN nations should be established, rather than an enforced separation for all whites, willing or no.  On the &quot;right,&quot; there's the opinion that historically white nations like the U.S.A. and Europe should enforce mass expulsion of non-Whites.  Even this is an oversimplification - there is no monolithic WN position on this, for example many WNs feel that European nations should expel all non-whites, but the U.S.A. should only make room for racial enclaves.&lt;/b&gt;

&lt;b&gt;Another problem is the &quot;racial purity&quot; passage.  &quot;Racial purity&quot; is misleading, again because there is no WN consensus even on whether there is such a thing, let alone whether it is a goal of WNism.  I'm a scientific racist myself, that is, racial reality informs all my beliefs about terms like &quot;racial purity.&quot;  I am fully aware of the fuzzy borders of race in terms of genetics, and I reject terms like &quot;racial purity&quot; as less than useful.  &quot;Racial distinctiveness&quot; or &quot;racial heritage&quot; or &quot;genetic identity&quot; are all far more useful (and accurate) terms than &quot;racial purity.&quot;&lt;/b&gt;

The term &quot;race&quot;, though according to some long dispensed-with in terms of any meaningful scientific value, still holds social value for many who (in part or in whole) base their personal identity upon genetical characteristics.

&lt;b&gt;&quot;Though according to some long dispensed-with in terms of any meaningful scientific value&quot; - is this really the place to insert this information?  Is this a definition of White Nationalism, or a refutation of it?  This kind of schizophrenia runs throughout the original, and makes for poor writing.  As I stated above, I don't expect this entry to be a WNist tract, but I do expect an honest representation of what WNism is, and I do expect enough room for that representation to breathe.  I'm sure the entry on race that is linked to has more than enough grist for the race-denial crowd.  Even if this caveat does belong here, it shouldn't be included in the same paragraph that sets forth the WN beliefs concerning race, much less in the same sentence.&lt;/b&gt;

In all parts of the world, personal identity reflects the degree of awareness and connectivity to the outside world and foreign cultures, thus &quot;race issues&quot; tend to be seen as related to xenophobia, ethnocentrism, and other &quot;culture clash&quot; paradigms.

&lt;b&gt;Let me be frank and ask, just what the hell does that mean?  This is a muddy sentence that is badly in need of a rewrite.  I can't even figure out what it means, so it's hard to determine if it would belong or not if rewritten.&lt;/b&gt;

Similar concerns that may be a catalyst for a distinction of personal identity are religion, gender, language, and differences regarding these issues are often manifested in conflict of one form or another.

&lt;b&gt;How are conflicts over religion, gender, and language directly related to racial nationalism?  If there's a point to be made here, make it, or remove this detritus.&lt;/b&gt;

Some of these groups have condoned violence in the past, and some have built up strong followings mainly in prisons.

&lt;b&gt;The issue of violent behavior and rhetoric among WN groups deserves its own paragraph, if it's to be broached, I think.  &quot;[A]nd some have built up strong followings, mainly in prisons,&quot; is an obvious attempt to link WNism with the old pathology canard.  The National Alliance, America's foremost WN advocacy group, has a membership in which the highly educated and members of the professions are overrepresented by a factor of seven when compared to the American population at large.  This is as relevant as the &quot;mainly in prisons&quot; bit.&lt;/b&gt;

As a result of the violent and radical image of some of the white supremacist groups, a growing number of white nationalists have adopted less hostile rhetoric, and portray themselves as conservatives interested in maintaining traditional values, including white dominance in American life.

&lt;b&gt;The growing strength of mainstream, non-violent voices in WN groups is not solely a result of the violent and radical image of some white supremacist groups, therefore I rewrote it as being part of the impetus.&lt;/b&gt;

Many of these groups deny advocating white &quot;Supremacy&quot; and instead call for &quot;Separatism&quot; - often with the canard that 'mainstream' minority groups such as the NAACP and LULAC are &quot;separatist&quot; as well.

&lt;b&gt;It is not only true that many of these groups deny advocating white supremacy, many groups actually do not advocate white supremacy.  This sort of not-so-subtle phrasing is part of what I object to.  Is this to be an honest presentation of WNism, or a refutation of WNism?  As for the &quot;canard&quot; statement, this has little to do with WNist belief, even if true.  I've never heard a WN refer to the NAACP as a &quot;separatist&quot; group.  I have many times heard from WNs the complaint that advocacy groups for non-whites are publically supported and given positive press, while advocacy groups for whites are automatically classified as &quot;white supremacists.&quot;  This is a quite salient distinction, no?&lt;/b&gt;

Many also reject the label of &quot;Racist&quot; for &quot;racialist&quot;, and point to studies which the contend show clear disparities in &quot;racial&quot; abilities.

&lt;b&gt;The WN view on race and racial science deserves it's own paragraph, not just the second half of a sentence.  It's also worth explaining why many WNs reject the term &quot;racist,&quot; if it's worth mentioning the rejection itself.  Some may object to my rewrite above, but in my experience the word &quot;hatred&quot; does not appear in dictionaries in the definition of &quot;racism,&quot; while it does appear in the definition of the term in the vernacular.&lt;/b&gt;

In Europe, several far right political parties such as the British National Party, France's Front National, and the Austrian Freedom Party have won fairly wide support based on platforms widely seen as advocating racial separatism in addition to traditional nationalism.

&lt;b&gt;I changed &quot;far right&quot; to &quot;'far' right&quot; above because that is the common characterization, it isn't hard fact.  I also felt worth adding the fact that that characterization is one expressed in the media, but that doesn't make it necessarily so.&lt;/b&gt;

Jewish and Muslim peoples are rarely considered &quot;white&quot;, even if they appear to be European.

&lt;b&gt;If this is to be mentioned, an explanation is required.&lt;/b&gt;

Hispanics, Portuguese, and Italian people may or may not be considered white, based on regional backgrounds (Basque Spaniards and Northern Italians may be accepted while Sicilians and Puerto Ricans aren't).

&lt;b&gt;This passage is extremely problematic.  First of all, Portugal and Italy are nations, not races, and currently neither nationality carries racially exclusive connotations.  Swedish and Russian people &quot;may or may not be considered white&quot; too.  So, the passage is nonsensical.  Second, &quot;Hispanic&quot; is a very racially ambiguous term, and essentially includes a variety of racial groups whose membership in the group &quot;Hispanic&quot; essentially boils down to language and history, not to race.  Third, the idea that Sicilians and Puerto Ricans are considered non-white by all WNs is simply wrong.  Many WNs recognize that some Puerto Ricans are at least genetically white, and most accept Sicilians as white.&lt;/b&gt;

&lt;b&gt;Put simply, this passage needs to go, it's far more wrong than right.&lt;/b&gt;

In white minority nations such as South Africa or some Latin American states, there are often arguments for a &quot;white homeland&quot; as well, and white Nationalism takes on a more literal meaning.

&lt;b&gt;There are indeed arguments for white homelands in South Africa and some Latin American nations, but I fail to see how there WNism takes on a more literal meaning - explication is called for here.&lt;/b&gt;

&lt;b&gt;These are by no means my only problems with the original, there are quite a few errors of omission, widespread muddled language, subtly hostile language (the consistent unnecessary use of quotes around terms like white, race, whiteness, white homeland, etc.) and outright grammatical errors as well, but I won't deal with them now.&lt;/b&gt;

&lt;b&gt;Regarding the links, I think an explanation of WNism deserves a bit more than a single link to a WN forum.  So, I included links to some salient WNist or WN-sympathetic sites.&lt;/b&gt;

~Svigor

==Silence?==
Funny, my edits two days ago were removed within a few minutes of their posting, but I've not heard jack now that I'm on the talk page (as requested).  If no one's engaged me here on this issue by tomorrow I'm going to take that as tacit approval of my arguments and begin editing again.

~Svigor

==Regarding the search function==
Also, I find it a bit strange that I have to enter &quot;White Nationalism&quot; in the main search function, then repeat the search with the Google engine, then click on one of the links to pages containing the link to &quot;White Nationalism&quot; link, and then scroll down and click on the link to &quot;White Nationalism&quot; just to get to the White Nationalism page.  What kind of B.S. is that? ~Svigor

It's a problem with Wikipedia seraching currently.  However, if you use &quot;White nationalism&quot; (no quotes -- note the lower case 'n') and press the &quot;Go&quot; button, it should take you there automatically.  [[User:RickK|Rick]]'''[[User talk:RickK|K''']] 23:13, Jun 9, 2004 (UTC)

Ah, okay, I hadn't even considered case sensitivity, thanks. ~Svigor

==Racial Nationalism vs. White Nationalism==
&lt;i&gt;&quot;Before this page goes any further, I think it should be expanded into &quot;racial nationalism&quot; or something like that, so include all such movements (e.g. black nationalist movements in Africa, etc.).&quot;&lt;/i&gt;

I agree that a separate entry for racial nationalism should be included, but I disagree with the idea that all forms of racial nationalism should be dealt with on a single page.  I intend to expand this page in future, so I think the idea a bad one just in terms of space considerations.  Then you have the argument about whether Zionism qualifies as racial nationalism, whether Zionism and National Socialism should be moved to the racial nationalism page, etc.  I don't think anyone wants that. ~Svigor

==Regarding External Links==
Please explain the thinking behind disallowing the links I'm adding

One or two are sufficient, these pro-white nationalism links are excessive.  [[User:RickK|Rick]]'''[[User talk:RickK|K''']] 23:11, Jun 9, 2004 (UTC)

Check the external links for &quot;Zionism&quot; and get back to me.~ Svigor (sorry dunno how to make the cool sig seen around here)

==Reverting==
Only three reverts are allowed per user per article per 24 hour period. You have reverted White nationalism more than three times. Please stop now. RickK 23:12, Jun 9, 2004 (UTC)

So, I can only change and have my changes removed three times per article per 24 hour period?  That's interesting.

:That's the rule.  [[User:RickK|Rick]]'''[[User talk:RickK|K''']] 23:16, Jun 9, 2004 (UTC)

Well, this rule brings up an interesting dilemma.  Until now I've been relying on fair play.  I could of course bring this up at the Stormfront.org board and have dozens of posters there come here and join this controversy.  As I said up until now I've been relying on fair play, and I wasn't interested in making this a war.  I see that you've decided to let the links remain - I appreciate that, and I'll just go cool off now.

I'm not threatening you with &quot;a war,&quot; I'm simply making you aware that I hadn't brought the egregious imbalance of this article to the attention of my fellow SFers yet, in the hopes that I could sort this out by myself.  The only reason I'm even mentioning this is that dozens of SFers would make for many more reverts per 24 hour period.

:If you tried doing something as you threatened to do, the article would be protected from editing (not by me, since I have edited the page even though my edits consist of nothing but revertsions, as far as I can remember), so that would accomplish little except to garner bad feelings.  [[User:RickK|Rick]]'''[[User talk:RickK|K''']] 23:39, Jun 9, 2004 (UTC)

::It's not a &quot;threat&quot; to inform people of the imbalance of an article.  The natural thing for me to do in the first place would be to post a thread at SF about the article, its lack of balance, and suggest that interested WNs do something about how their ideology was being portrayed unfairly.  Instead, I decided to keep things quiet and see if I could do something on my own first. ~Svigor

:::In this article you are not informing people outside Wikipedia.  Instead you are threatening to bring in puppets to force your view. The community will frown on anyone threatening such tactics. I'd advise against making any more threats. - [[User:Texture|&lt;font color=red&gt;T&amp;#949;x&lt;/font&gt;]][[User Talk:Texture|&lt;font color=blue&gt;&amp;#964;&lt;/font&gt;]][[User:Texture|&lt;font color=red&gt;ur&amp;#949;&lt;/font&gt;]] 23:52, 9 Jun 2004 (UTC)

::::Oh yeah, my &quot;puppet army.&quot; Heh, where are all my &quot;puppets&quot; when my bills need paying, I wonder.  Yeah, it would be sooooo wrong to let White Nationalists influence the article on...White Nationalism. ~Svigor

::::http://dictionary.reference.com/search?q=threat

:::::threat
::::::n.

::::::1. An expression of an intention to inflict pain, injury, evil, or punishment.
::::::2. An indication of impending danger or harm.
::::::3. One that is regarded as a possible danger; a menace.

::::Which definition, pray tell, did my statment fall under?
	</talkpage>
	<talkpage id="9421186" title="Talk:White nationalism/Archive 2">
{{talkarchive}}
==Nativist symbols of the KKK and National Front==

So now symbols of &quot;patriotism, Christianity and Western civilization&quot; are indicative of some kind of ideological connection to white supremacism? If that's the standard, then please explain how the vast majority of the &quot;white&quot; people on this planet don't qualify. NPOV, yeah right.

==What constitutes 'white'?==

Further from the discussions on this page and ambiguity in the rest of the article, it would be helpful to point out that to the majority of 'white nationalists,' the white race is constituted of those descending from Western, Northern and Central (to a degree) European racial stocks- not Nordic countries only, nor Western or Central European countries only. 

I really believe that this should be merged with 'white supremacy' into a general article of 'white separatism' or something similar: these two concepts, despite the delineation often employed by white racists, are virtually indistinguishable. White nationalists are invariably white supremacists, and we shouldn't pander to their idiotic claims by acting as though this is not the case (one statement claiming a 'seperate but equal' position will often be followed moments later by an outright racist - and thus white supremacist - statement).

:What is white supremacy?  If you're going to conflate white nationalism (racial nationalism for white people) with white supremacy, perhaps you should define the latter.  As for what constitutes white, one of the more popular definitions is &quot;descendants of European Christendom.&quot;  The fact is that politically, for myself and many other white nationalists, the issue of racial supremacy is 100% politically irrelevant; my personal feelings as to which race is &quot;best&quot; or &quot;better&quot; or &quot;supreme&quot; simply don't enter the picture.  I value the white race, I want to see it thrive, and my politics follow.  An excellent analogy is family sentiment; we want to see our families succeed, we want them to grow, and questions of &quot;supremacy&quot; don't really matter.  Poor, stupid, uneducated families and rich, smart, educated families generally share this sentiment, regardless of feelings of supremacy or superiority or inferiority.

==White separatism==

Article: 'This version of White nationalism is distinct from those versions that promote general expulsion or genocide.'
This is wrong, because it states that there are some other versions of nationalism that DO promote expulsion or genocide. Changed to 'distinct from supermacism', but got reverted. So the question to HOTR is: names of these versions? [[User:AlV|AlV]] 13:08, 7 October 2005 (UTC)

==I have an easy, painless solution to all this==

Why don't we just separate the article into pro and con sections (on the same page, or on different ones, it makes no nevermind to me)?  That way White Nationalists can present their views as they see them (why this should be an issue of contention is beyond my ken), and those opposed or &quot;neutral&quot; or whatever can present the &quot;mainstream&quot; view of White Nationalism.

This would solve everyone's problems, I think, except of course those whose goal is to censor someone else's views.

Just to gripe further, I'm a bit disappointed that no one has yet responded to the issues I've raised with regard to the article's text.  If this issue is so &quot;controversial,&quot; if people are interested enough to remove my edits, then a response shouldn't be too much to ask for.

== Better soloution ==

The people trying to keep links off the article page should be ashamed of themselves. Additionally anyone who can bring in knowledgable users should be commended, not harassed. If you do indeed suspect someone of being a sockpuppet, please review the respective ISP's. I find the way this page is being handled to be in defiance of common sense, intellectual honesty and wiki-policy. Please review your statements, actions and [[Wikipedia:Please do not bite the newcomers]]. [[User:Sam Spade|Sam]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=User_talk:Sam_Spade&amp;action=edit&amp;section=new '''Spade''']] 01:16, 10 Jun 2004 (UTC)

:When someone threatens to bring in an army to enforce their view on others we will look at their ISPs.  In the meantime, no one is suggesting that anyone is a sock puppet.  (Or even a newbie, IMHO.)  I have no problem with my statements and actions.  We merely disagree that slanting an article (or set of links) to one point of view is correct.  Nor do I agree that it is in Wikipedia's interest to create tandem sets of articles with skewed POVs to each side.  (Isn't that the goal of disinfopedia or one of the other wikis?)  The best solution is to discuss these links on the talk page and gain some consensus on what belongs.  After hearing your opinion and solution, this is my opinion and solution. - [[User:Texture|&lt;font color=red&gt;T&amp;#949;x&lt;/font&gt;]][[User Talk:Texture|&lt;font color=blue&gt;&amp;#964;&lt;/font&gt;]][[User:Texture|&lt;font color=red&gt;ur&amp;#949;&lt;/font&gt;]] 02:57, 10 Jun 2004 (UTC)

::Your solution is fine, and I am discussing. I would like to see more links (and more users involved here specifically, and in the project generally), not less. I do agree with evening the links out, but only by adding '''more''' links, not less. The above question by Svigor about the policy on him inviting others to the discussion was answered by an assault on his character, and severe assumptions of bad faith. I rebuke that response, and question the benefit of suspecting a new user of being an old one (that happened to me, and was rude enough to almost convince me to leave the project, BTW). Where is your proof against the gentleman, good sir? Produce such, or kindly cease all defamations of his character. [[User:Sam Spade|Sam]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=User_talk:Sam_Spade&amp;action=edit&amp;section=new '''Spade''']] 04:03, 10 Jun 2004 (UTC)


:::How is it insulting or &quot;an assault&quot; that I am not suggesting that he is a newbie?  (or a sock puppet for that matter.)  I did not use that lack of assumption of newbie or sock puppet to make any accusation.  Why do you leap to such a conclusion? I find your rebuke puzzling and rude. Instead I responded to two concepts: inviting numerous people who agree with one pov to force his view on the rest of us, and splitting the article into two (within this article or without). - [[User:Texture|&lt;font color=red&gt;T&amp;#949;x&lt;/font&gt;]][[User Talk:Texture|&lt;font color=blue&gt;&amp;#964;&lt;/font&gt;]][[User:Texture|&lt;font color=red&gt;ur&amp;#949;&lt;/font&gt;]] 04:16, 10 Jun 2004 (UTC)

::::Cry me a river. Its quite simply a personal attack to suggest he is a sockpuppet or returned user w/o proof. Stormfront is by no means a single POV BTW, they have a fair amount of anti-racialist trolls who try to shout them down. Bringing in knowledgable users of all persuasions is always a good thing. Exclusivity is anti-wiki. [[User:Sam Spade|Sam]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=User_talk:Sam_Spade&amp;action=edit&amp;section=new '''Spade''']] 04:19, 10 Jun 2004 (UTC)

:::::&quot;''Cry me a river''&quot; - I don't need to reply to that. - [[User:Texture|&lt;font color=red&gt;T&amp;#949;x&lt;/font&gt;]][[User Talk:Texture|&lt;font color=blue&gt;&amp;#964;&lt;/font&gt;]][[User:Texture|&lt;font color=red&gt;ur&amp;#949;&lt;/font&gt;]] 04:28, 10 Jun 2004 (UTC)

Texture, there's no point in discussing anything with Jack (AKA Sam).  He's a troll who's only here to disrupt things.  [[User:RickK|Rick]]'''[[User talk:RickK|K''']] 04:25, Jun 10, 2004 (UTC)

:You refuse to answer what you have no answer to. You slander that which you do not understand. Every personal attack is another sign of your intellectual dishonesty. Next time, try logic. [[User:Sam Spade|Sam]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=User_talk:Sam_Spade&amp;action=edit&amp;section=new '''Spade''']] 05:00, 10 Jun 2004 (UTC)

==Lets move on==

I hope I speak for the group when I apologise for any misunderstandings. The important thing is to acheive [[NPOV]] and factual accuracy within this article. We can best acheive that thru mutual respect and determination, NOT thru [[wikipedia:no personal attacks|personal attacks]]. Lets move on. [[User:Sam Spade|Sam]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=User_talk:Sam_Spade&amp;action=edit&amp;section=new '''Spade''']] 05:20, 10 Jun 2004 (UTC)

== Links ==

**External links
* [http://www.stormfront.org Stormfront.org (white pride discussion forum)]
* [http://amren.com American Renaissance (White Nationalist news &amp; editorials)]
* [http://www.nationalvanguard.org/ National Alliance (White Nationalist advocacy group &amp; news site)]
* [http://home.ddc.net/ygg/ Yggdrasil's WN Library (White Nationalist literature)]
* [http://www.vdare.com/ VDare (quasi-White Nationalist news &amp; editorials)]
* [http://www.mugu.com/cgi-bin/Upstream/Root Upstream (&quot;intellectual heterodoxy&quot;)]
* [http://www.thornwalker.com/ditch/ The Last Ditch (pro-western libertarianism)]
* [http://www.lagriffedulion.f2s.com/ La Griffe du Lion (science of race)]
* [http://www.lrainc.com/swtaboo/index.html Stalking the Wild Taboo (science of race)]

== Great points, Svigor ==

The current definition is a great example of putting groups in a false light without actually slandering them.  The omissions and hostile use of the &quot; symbol alone are clear violations of the Neutral Point of View rule.

Prison comment: priceless.  

And thanks for pointing out the abundance of friendly links provided in the Zionism article.  I'll paste them here for a comparison with the one lonely link to Stormfront:

edit: In the interest of concision, I took the liberty of editing out FenrisSF's inclusion of the links, because I think I have a pretty good idea who he is, and I don't think he'll object.  If he does, he can always change it back, and I'll apologize.  Here's a link to the page &amp; section in question:

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zionism#External_links
[[User:Svigor|Svigor]] 04:01, 11 Jun 2004 (UTC)

:By ''purely random chance'' [[FenrisSF]]'s first '''[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=Special:Contributions&amp;target=FenrisSF and only edit]''' is to this very talk page. - [[User:Texture|&lt;font color=red&gt;T&amp;#949;x&lt;/font&gt;]][[User Talk:Texture|&lt;font color=blue&gt;&amp;#964;&lt;/font&gt;]][[User:Texture|&lt;font color=red&gt;ur&amp;#949;&lt;/font&gt;]] 15:30, 10 Jun 2004 (UTC)

::Why would it be &quot;by purely random chance,&quot; Texture?  Do you have ANY comments to make here that don't fall under the ad hominem attack category, or any contributions to make other than hostile reverts contrary to Wikipedia guidelines? [[User:Svigor|Svigor]] 04:01, 11 Jun 2004 (UTC)

==What This Article Should Be About==

Here's my understanding of things that the term ''white nationalism'' can mean, and my opinions on what should be described here, and what should be mentioned but point to other articles:
* White nationalism can mean support for separate white nations, or white areas within nations.  This is better dealt with at [[white separatism]], however, which is a fairly unambiguous name for that viewpoint, and mirrors [[black separatism]].
* White nationalism can be support for the idea that white people share a common heritage and ought to share a common identity as an abstract &quot;nation of people&quot; (not nation as in nation-state), and perhaps also have advocacy groups to work on their behalf, essentially white versions of groups like the [[NAACP]] (a group that works on the behalf of black people).  I think this is primarily what ought to be described here, and it also parallels [[black nationalism]] closely, so we keep our terminology consistent.
* White nationalism can also be white supremacism, in the same sort of sense that US nationalism can be US supremacism (belief that the US is superior to other countries).  This should be mentioned, and critics of white nationalists that accuse them of being white supremacists in disguise should also be mentioned, but the primary documentation of the white supremacist movement itself should be at [[white supremacism]].  Note also that this must be done carefully: it is undoubtedly true that there are closet white supremacists who masquerade as white nationalists, but in the minefield of [[identity politics]], accusations of [[racism]] are thrown around quite commonly in all directions.
--[[User:Delirium|Delirium]] 19:53, Jun 10, 2004 (UTC)

:I find that generally agreeable, and would mention in response to your second point that there is just such an organization : [http://www.naawp.com/ N.A.A.W.P.] Another reason for more links, not less, eh? [[User:Sam Spade|Sam]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=User_talk:Sam_Spade&amp;action=edit&amp;section=new '''Spade''']] 00:06, 11 Jun 2004 (UTC)
::Sometimes, even as a WN, I fail to see the forest for the trees.  I agree with virtually all of what delirium has said above, especially his definition of white nationalism.  He is perfectly correct that WNism is about white people thinking and acting as a political block, as people of other races do. [[User:Svigor|Svigor]] 04:04, 11 Jun 2004 (UTC)

== Recent ban ==

Here is some important info regarding the recent ban, well said by a [[wikipedia:arbitrator]] [http://mail.wikipedia.org/pipermail/wikien-l/2004-June/013356.html]. [[User:Sam Spade|Sam]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=User_talk:Sam_Spade&amp;action=edit&amp;section=new '''Spade''']] 23:31, 10 Jun 2004 (UTC)

== Critique of page as of 6-11 ==

(feel free to post commentary within the text if you wish, as long as it's signed) [[User:Svigor|Svigor]] 04:16, 11 Jun 2004 (UTC)

&lt;b&gt;The first paragraph as it stands now is a vast improvement&lt;/b&gt;

More extreme white nationalists may also support white separatism, the belief that white people should live separately from non-whites, either in separate all-white nations or in separate white areas of existing nations (see also racial segregation).

&lt;b&gt;&quot;More extreme&quot; is probably not the best way to put it.  &quot;Many white nationalists&quot; would be better.&lt;b&gt;

&lt;b&gt;White separatism is indeed characterized by the belief that white people should live separately from non-whites as stated above, but I still believe that the &quot;(or at least be allowed to live)&quot; clause should be included right after &quot;should live.&quot;  It is absolutely essential that the distinction be made, because otherwise the common assumption that white separatism demands an across-the-board separation of the races is not dispelled.  A minority of white separatists do indeed seek such an enforced separation of the races, but in my experience the vast majority recognize that forcing a large population of anti-ethnocentric whites to live in a white separatist state would doom that state to failure.  Most white separatists welcome a parting of the ways between anti-ethnocentric whites and ethnocentric whites.  In fact, a great many WNs and white separatists identify the white anti-racist ruling class of the western world (safely ensconced in its limousines whilst traveling between its all-white gated communities and its cloisters) and white anti-racists in general as their most powerful enemies.&lt;/b&gt;

Historically, white nationalism has been connected to opposition to black civil rights and to white supremacism. 

&lt;b&gt;I think explication is needed here.  How, why, and when has WNism been historically connected to white &quot;supremacism&quot; [sic] and opposition to black civil rights?  Whether or not this connection still exists and, if different today, how so is also relevant.&lt;/b&gt;

Many modern white nationalists explicitly deny being white supremacists, arguing that they merely wish for each group of people with shared heritage, including white people, to be allowed to promote and preserve its heritage, and do not desire to oppress or dominate other races as racial supremacists do. However, many of their critics charge that white nationalism is simply white supremacism in disguise.

&lt;b&gt;I'd like very much to find a way to express the idea that &quot;many modern white nationalists explicitly deny being white supremacists,&quot; and the idea that many modern white nationalists indeed &lt;i&gt;are not&lt;/i&gt; white &quot;supremacists&quot; [sic], without the writing seeming schizophrenic.  I don't have any ideas on how to do that at the moment, I just wanted to point this out.  Kudos to the author (Delirium?) on the &quot;to be allowed&quot; part, that really is starting to get to the crux of the matter, as it is congruent with the fact that most white nationalists do not seek to enforce racial separation across the board.&lt;b&gt;

&lt;b&gt;Are X vs.Y articles allowed, i.e. socialism vs. communism, libertarianism vs. liberalism?  If so, I think white nationalism vs. white &quot;supremacism&quot; [sic] would make a capital addition to the collection.&lt;/b&gt;

The term &quot;race&quot;, though according to some long dispensed-with in terms of any meaningful scientific value, still holds social value for many who (in part or in whole) base their personal identity upon genetic characteristics, especially those that affect outward appearance. 

:&lt;b&gt;[old criticism] &quot;Though according to some long dispensed-with in terms of any meaningful scientific value&quot; - is this really the place to insert this information? Is this a definition of White Nationalism, or a refutation of it? [snip] As I stated above, I don't expect this entry to be a WNist tract, but I do expect an honest representation of what WNism is, and I do expect enough room for that representation to breathe. I'm sure the entry on race that is linked to has more than enough grist for the race-denial crowd. Even if this caveat does belong here, it shouldn't be included in the same paragraph that sets forth the WN beliefs concerning race, much less in the same sentence.&lt;/b&gt;

&lt;b&gt;[new criticism] This statement is no better than its previous incarnation (which appeared sans the &quot;especially those that affect outward appearance&quot; addition), and demonstrably worse.  There is absolutely NO basis for the idea that white nationalists base their personal identity vis-a-vis race &quot;especially [on] those [genetic characteristics] that affect outward appearance.&quot;  Generally, and especially among the WN intelligentsia, WNs see the surface differences between races as &lt;i&gt;markers&lt;/i&gt; for race, not as the important substance of race.  Of course, social identity theory tells us that these surface differences are important in and of themselves, but generally, they are held by WNs and race-realists essentially as race-identifiers, not as the significant part of racial differences.&lt;/b&gt;

&lt;b&gt;In other words, contrary to the wildly popular delusion, it isn't all or mostly or even significantly about skin color.  Skin color generally ranks near the bottom of the list of the average WN's &quot;racial differences list,&quot; far below behavioral genetics, except as a race-marker.  Try a post at Stormfront.org about how racism is all about skin color or surface differences, and enjoy the mockery you receive.&lt;/b&gt;

In all parts of the world, personal identity reflects the degree of awareness and connectivity to the outside world and foreign cultures, thus &quot;race issues&quot; tend to be seen as related to xenophobia, ethnocentrism, and other &quot;culture clash&quot; paradigms.

&lt;b&gt;This still makes no sense.  Can someone explain the significance and meaning of this passage to me?  I still maintain that it's muddy and pointless.&lt;/b&gt;

Similar concerns that may be a catalyst for a distinction of personal identity are religion, gender, language, and differences regarding these issues are often manifested in conflict of one form or another.

&lt;b&gt;This still has no direct bearing on the subject at hand - what in the blue blazes does this have to do with white nationalism, specifically?  Doesn't this belong in some other entry, in &quot;personal identity&quot; perhaps?&lt;/b&gt;

Some of these groups have condoned violence in the past, and some have built up strong followings mainly in prisons.

&lt;b&gt;There are many Republicans and Democrats in prison too, what's the point?  It's also too general - which groups, when, and where are the references?  Otherwise, it just looks to me like what it probably is - an attempt to pathologize white nationalism and associate it with criminality.  I think I'd find an in-depth study of this issue very illuminating.  As I said before, the National Alliance has a membership in which the highly educated and members of the professions are overrepresented by a factor of 7 compared to the public.  This is still as relevant as the unsubtle prison assertion.&lt;/b&gt;

&lt;b&gt;I mean really, many Hispanic identity groups are mainly prison societies, is that to characterize the article about Hispanic identity groups (if there is such a beast?).  Many historically Jewish identity movements are mainly communistic affairs, should we slide that little tidbit into the section on Jewish identity or Zionism?&lt;/b&gt;

As a result of the violent and radical image of some of the white supremacist groups, a growing number of white nationalists have adopted less hostile rhetoric, and portray themselves as conservatives interested in maintaining traditional values, including white dominance in American life. 

&lt;b&gt;The growing strength of mainstream, non-violent voices in WN groups is not solely a result of the violent and radical image of some white supremacist groups, therefore I think this sentence should begin with &quot;partly.&quot;&lt;/b&gt;

Many of these groups deny advocating white &quot;Supremacy&quot; and instead call for &quot;Separatism&quot; - often with the canard that 'mainstream' minority groups such as the NAACP and LULAC are &quot;separatist&quot; as well. 

&lt;b&gt;It is not only true that many of these groups deny advocating white supremacy, many groups actually do not advocate white supremacy. This sort of not-so-subtle phrasing is part of what I object to. Is this to be an honest presentation of WNism, or a refutation of WNism? As for the &quot;canard&quot; statement, this has little to do with WNist belief, even if true. I've never heard a WN refer to the NAACP as a &quot;separatist&quot; group. I have many times heard from WNs the complaint that advocacy groups for non-whites are publically supported and given positive press, while advocacy groups for whites are automatically classified as &quot;white supremacists.&quot; This is a quite salient distinction, no?&lt;b&gt;

Many also reject the label of &quot;Racist&quot; for &quot;racialist&quot;, and point to studies which they contend show clear disparities in &quot;racial&quot; abilities.

&lt;b&gt;The WN view on race and racial science deserves it's own paragraph, not just the second half of a sentence. It's also worth explaining why many WNs reject the term &quot;racist,&quot; if it's worth mentioning the rejection itself. Some may object to my proposed rewrite (in archive1), but in my experience the word &quot;hatred&quot; does not appear in dictionaries in the definition of &quot;racism,&quot; while it does appear in the definition of the term in the vernacular.&lt;b&gt;

&lt;b&gt;It would also be nice to dispense with the not-so-subtly disparaging quotes around the term &quot;racial.&quot;&lt;/b&gt;

American Renaissance and the Council of Conservative Citizens are two leading examples in the United States.

&lt;b&gt;They're two examples of what?  This is poor writing.  The only logical conclusion is that the examples being cited either are being cited to support something that hasn't been stated, or they are being cited to support the last applicable idea put forward in the previous paragraph (i.e., Amren and CoC include the &quot;canard that 'mainstream' minority groups&quot; are separatist.  The former seems more likely since the latter is patently absurd and demands references.&lt;/b&gt;

In Europe, several far right political parties such as the British National Party, France's Front National, and the Austrian Freedom Party have won fairly wide support based on platforms widely seen as advocating racial separatism in addition to traditional nationalism.

&lt;b&gt;I think the &quot;widely seen&quot; bit needs to be supported or withdrawn.  Just because the press says it doesn't make it so - the American public feels the same way, if the latest Pew study on mass media credibility is to be believed.&lt;/b&gt;

Jewish and Muslim peoples are rarely considered &quot;white&quot;, even if they appear to be European.

&lt;b&gt;If this is to be mentioned, an explanation is required.&lt;/b&gt;

Hispanics, Portuguese, and Italian people may or may not be considered white, based on regional backgrounds (Basque Spaniards and Northern Italians may be accepted while Sicilians and Puerto Ricans aren't). 

&lt;b&gt;This passage is extremely problematic. First of all, Portugal and Italy are nations, not races, and currently neither nationality carries racially exclusive connotations. Swedish and Russian people &quot;may or may not be considered white&quot; too. So, the passage is nonsensical. Second, &quot;Hispanic&quot; is a very racially ambiguous term, and essentially includes a variety of racial groups whose membership in the group &quot;Hispanic&quot; essentially boils down to language and history, not to race. Third, the idea that Sicilians and Puerto Ricans are considered non-white by all WNs is simply wrong. Many WNs recognize that some Puerto Ricans are at least genetically white, and most accept Sicilians as white.&lt;/b&gt;

&lt;b&gt;Put simply, this passage needs to go, it's far more wrong than right.&lt;/b&gt;

In white minority nations such as South Africa or some Latin American states, there are often arguments for a &quot;white homeland&quot; as well, and white Nationalism takes on a more literal meaning.

&lt;b&gt;There are indeed arguments for white homelands in South Africa and some Latin American nations, but I fail to see how there WNism takes on a more literal meaning - explication is called for here.&lt;/b&gt;

&lt;b&gt;Again, these aren't my only problems with the existing article, but I think we're moving in the right direction.&lt;/b&gt;

&lt;b&gt;Regarding external links - deleting the links to WN and WN-sympathetic sites is simply reprehensible.  I'm no expert on the anti-WN presence on the Web, so I'll leave those links to others (I'd be bored and irritated by the inevitable accusations concerning &quot;softball&quot; anti-WN links anyways).  Before anyone removes the any pro-WN links provided, I'd advise a quick perusal of the number and nature of external links at the Zionism article for perspective: there are 21 of them (or there were as of June 10th), and fully two thirds of them are pro-Zionist.&lt;/b&gt;

[[User:Svigor|Svigor]] 04:16, 11 Jun 2004 (UTC)

== Dispute header ==

who is disputing what, and what needs to be changed/added/removed/discussed so that it can be removed. [[User:Sam Spade|Sam]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=User_talk:Sam_Spade&amp;action=edit&amp;section=new '''Spade''']] 20:16, 14 Jun 2004 (UTC)

:[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=White_nationalism&amp;diff=4021943&amp;oldid=4011069 You added] the header; please do explain why. [[User:Mirv|&amp;#8212;No-One]][[User talk:Mirv|&amp;nbsp;''Jones'']] 22:05, 14 Jun 2004 (UTC)

::Fair enough, seeing as there is no objection at this time (myself included, I believe...) I have removed the header. Svigor, would you like to start implemeting your [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talk:White_nationalism#Critique_of_page_as_of_6-11 suggestions]? [[User:Sam Spade|Sam]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=User_talk:Sam_Spade&amp;action=edit&amp;section=new '''Spade''']] 00:33, 15 Jun 2004 (UTC)

:::I'd prefer that I receive some feedback about my commentary above first.  Since I'm currently working on a WNist treatment of WNism at Wikinfo [http://www.internet-encyclopedia.org/wiki.php?title=White_Nationalism], I'm willing to be patient until it's finished.  In fact, I'd be willing to settle for a prominently displayed link to my Wikinfo article and caveat that WNists find the Wikipedia article highly objectionable (assuming that the Wikinfo article is allowed to remain unmolested). [[User:Svigor|Svigor]] 21:43, 15 Jun 2004 (UTC)

User:Svigor is working in a very hostile environment over at Wikinfo. It is Wikinfo policy that the editorial policy of writing from a sympathetic point of view does not apply to subjects such as White nationalism, totalitarianism, Marxism-Leninism, North Korea, Hitler, Nazism, Ku Klux Klan, Pol Pot, etc, where little factual basis for a sympathetic point of view exists. It is possible he may be able to write a signed article there eventually but the main article he wrote on the subject is clearly unsatisfactory. [[User:Fred Bauder|Fred Bauder]] 20:19, Jun 18, 2004 (UTC) 


Ok, whichever. [[User:Sam Spade|Sam]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=User_talk:Sam_Spade&amp;action=edit&amp;section=new '''Spade''']] 21:49, 15 Jun 2004 (UTC)

Prominent display may be a problem, external links are ment to be at the bottom of the page, in the &quot;external links&quot; section. [[User:Sam Spade|Sam]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=User_talk:Sam_Spade&amp;action=edit&amp;section=new '''Spade''']] 21:55, 15 Jun 2004 (UTC)

:I'd be okay with putting the link with the others at the end of the article, say at the top of the pro links, or better yet in a separate section with a header like, &quot;other definitions of WNism&quot; or somesuch.  As long as it's easily noticeable, and labeled something like &quot;Wikinfo Internet Encyclopedia definition of WNism.&quot; I just want a good article from a less hostile p.o.v. readily available to people who view this article.  Perhaps a link early in the text somewhere, in a sentence like &quot;for a more sympathetic treatment...&quot; etc. [[User:Svigor|Svigor]] 18:05, 16 Jun 2004 (UTC)

Reading this article reases a few questions for me, that I would like to see addressed by someone who knows the answers:

# What exactly is the difference between a white nationalist and a white separatist? The articles don't make it clear. If there isn't a real difference they should be run into one article.

::If you don't like my comments interspersed, say so and I'll move 'em.  White Nationalism and white separatism are related, but quite distinct.  White Nationalists are people who want whites to start thinking like a group with a common identity and working identity politics like other races do.  White separatists (practically by definition WNs) are those who want white people to be allowed to create their own monoracial nations. [[User:Svigor|Svigor]] 18:05, 16 Jun 2004 (UTC)

# We need some historical context of the term. 
#What do white nationalists think about things like mixed race marriages?

[[User:DJ Clayworth|DJ Clayworth]] 13:40, 16 Jun 2004 (UTC)

::There is no monolithic WN position on mixed-race marriages, but the overwhelming majority disapprove.  If you ask a more specific question I can give you a more specific answer.  I'm not aware of any links specifically about this, but a Google for &quot;Jewish intermarriage assimilation&quot; should find you a Rabbi or two whose opinions are congruent with many WNs in many ways. [[User:Svigor|Svigor]] 18:05, 16 Jun 2004 (UTC)

== White Religion? ==

I think it's really ironic that white nationalists claim to believe in the promotion of the white &quot;shared heritage&quot; yet they almost excusively follow the middle-eastern/semitic religion of Christianity.

If white nationalists were really concerned about &quot;heritage&quot;, then shouldn't they all be Wiccans/Neo-Pagans?

Just a thought.

--[[User:Corvun|Corvun]] 01:21, 22 Jul 2004 (UTC)

:&quot;''yet they almost excusively follow the middle-eastern/semitic religion of Christianity''&quot; 
::Not true at all. A great many are odin worshippers. Have a look at websites like http://nazi.org/ , they hate christians. [[User:Sam Spade|Sam]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=User_talk:Sam_Spade&amp;action=edit&amp;section=new '''Spade''']] 04:07, 22 Jul 2004 (UTC)

:::nazi.org would be the [[Libertarian National Socialist Green Party]] for which there is still no referable evidence of them being other than a straight-faced joke ... - [[User:David Gerard|David Gerard]] 12:41, 22 Jul 2004 (UTC)

whatever, check out [[satr]] then, or [http://www.stormfront.org/forum/forumdisplay.php?f=85 this, from stormfront]. [[User:Sam Spade|Sam]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=User_talk:Sam_Spade&amp;action=edit&amp;section=new '''Spade''']] 23:53, 22 Jul 2004 (UTC)

: I was completely unaware of this.  It doesn't really surprise me, though.  It seems inevitable that with such an emphasis on &quot;white heritage&quot; there would be those who would reject the Semitic religion of Christianity to reconnect to their &quot;white roots&quot; through the older Pagan religions of Europe.

--[[User:Corvun|Corvun]] 03:27, 24 Jul 2004 (UTC)

::Sure, but don't assume it only flows in one direction. See [[Mysticism in Nazi Germany]], [[Thule-Gesellschaft]], [[Germanenorden]], [[Vril Society]] etc... for the flip side of the coin. [[User:Sam Spade|Sam]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=User_talk:Sam_Spade&amp;action=edit&amp;section=new '''Spade''']] 04:13, 24 Jul 2004 (UTC)


- White Nationalism is not restricted to only christians.  There are many atheists/agnostics, creators, Odinists, And christians.


See this article: [http://www.amren.com/979issue/979issue.html#cover &quot;Christianity, Pro and Con&quot;] and [http://www.amren.com/9710issue/9710issue.html#letters responses to it from readers] in ''[[American Renaissance (magazine)|American Renaissance]]'', for a good, summary illustration of the disagreement among White Nationalists &quot;about the effects of Christianity on the struggle to preserve Western Civilization&quot;. - [[User:Morning star|Morning star]] 02:14, 04 April 2004 (UTC)

==Ku Klux Klan picture==
On another note, I feel that the Klan picture is innappropriate.  While the KKK are white nationalists, white nationalism is not only them.  The Klan will promote images of White Nationalism to readers that aren't necessarily true to the concept of White Nationalism.

:I confess to being the main author of the first two paragraphs of the article and the one who put the picture in the article. It illustrates the negative viewpoint. Originally there was a balancing picture which arguably illustrated a more modern and positive viewpoint, but that image turned out to be unavailable. I don't know a good image that could be put in but I suggest someone find one and use it to illustrate the article in a positive light, in so far as it is possible. [[User:Fred Bauder|Fred Bauder]] 11:32, Aug 30, 2004 (UTC)

The history of organizations like the Ku Klux Klan hang over any attempt to organize White people in a positive way, as a legitimate advocacy group. How a legitimate group could effectively distance itself remains an unanswered question. But censoring this article is not part of the answer. [[User:Fred Bauder|Fred Bauder]] 11:32, Aug 30, 2004 (UTC)


==Category:Nationalism==
Why is white nationalism under the category heading : Neo Nazi? Whilst a small sub group of white nationalists could be desribed as adherents of National Socialism, the majority are not National Socialists. I think it is time for a new 'nationalist politics' category.

:How about nationalism? [[User:Fred Bauder|Fred Bauder]] 03:27, Sep 1, 2004 (UTC)

::The anonymous editor who posted the original inquiry did add Category:Nationalism to the article but it was reverted. I think they were right and put it back in. That category is relatively undeveloped and has not been used in a number of instances it should have been including [[Zionism]] and [[Hindutva]]. I have added the category to those articles also, (Why quarrel in only one controversial article which you can have three fights for the price of one?). There are probably other nationalist movements it could be added to. [[User:Fred Bauder|Fred Bauder]] 12:04, Sep 1, 2004 (UTC)

I disagree with a nationalism category.  Neo nazi is appropriate to the article and its contents. - [[User:Texture|&lt;font color=red&gt;T&amp;#949;x&lt;/font&gt;]][[User Talk:Texture|&lt;font color=blue&gt;&amp;#964;&lt;/font&gt;]][[User:Texture|&lt;font color=red&gt;ur&amp;#949;&lt;/font&gt;&lt;!-- TANSTAAFL --&gt;]] 01:00, 2 Sep 2004 (UTC)

:Both are appropriate. [[User:Fred Bauder|Fred Bauder]] 03:39, Sep 2, 2004 (UTC)

It should be under Neo-Nazi, White Nationalism is racism.
--Eurytus

Racism is a dead word.  It has no meaning anymore.  It's become so broad that it's useless; essentially, every man woman and child on earth is racist, at least according to this definition:

racism
n.

   1. The belief that race accounts for differences in human character or ability and that a particular race is superior to others.
   2. Discrimination or prejudice based on race.

and this one:
n 1: the prejudice that members of one race are intrinsically superior to members of other races 2: discriminatory or abusive behavior towards members of another race.

since one of the definitions of discrimination is:
discrimination   Audio pronunciation of &quot;discrimination&quot; ( P )  Pronunciation Key  (d-skrm-nshn)
n.

   1. The act of discriminating.
   2. The ability or power to see or make fine distinctions; discernment.

Now, if we come to sanity on the definition of racism, then we have a two-edged sword.  On one hand, all of the saintly egalitarians are off the hook, but unfortunately, some of the diabolical White Nationalists are off the hook too.  It is perfectly possible to be a WNist without being a racist, if racist is defined in a useable fashion.

National Socialism, Nazism, Neo-Nazism, whatever your favorite term for the Third Reich and its sympathizers, are NOT coterminous with White Nationalism.  National Socialism was not intended for all white people, it was intended for Germans.  It is pan-German racial nationalism.  It is erroneous to refer to all WNism as Nazism or Neo-Nazism.

As an aside, this article is absurd.  It's poorly written and schizophrenic; it's a broth that stinks of too many (poisonous) cooks.  It reads like a Nazi-haters guide to what Nazi-haters hate.  Its authors are ill-informed.  Frankly, it's a circle jerk.

:Regarding the category choice: I have come across editors who insist that White Nationalists are not neo-Nazis. Further, I believe that few groups or individuals self-identify as &quot;neo-nazi&quot;. And other groups have no interest in Germany or Fascism. For example, the [[Council of Conservative Citizens]] is definitely white nationalist, but probably not neo-nazi. Therefore, I believe that there ought to be a separate category for &quot;white nationalists&quot;, parallel to the neo-nazi category. -[[User:Willmcw|Willmcw]] 00:54, 7 Jan 2005 (UTC)

::Since several commenters here have felt free to sling mud about WN beliefs, I'll point out that I'm amused by the idiotic habit of anti-WNs of referring to WNs as &quot;Nazis&quot; and &quot;neo-Nazis.&quot;  Their intention is clearly to attach a word with enormous political and social baggage to a group of people to whom it does not apply.  For example, I'm a WN and I prefer American Constitutional Republicanism.  This tactic is about as intellectually honest as referring to all of European politics as &quot;commie&quot; or &quot;pinko&quot; because of the relatively socialist leanings found throughout.

== RE: My most recent edit ==

Aside from visiting the [[International Spy Museum]], I don't have much knowledge of [[White nationalism]], nor do I aspire to.  That said, the following statement, which I have removed from the introduction, does not belong on Wikipedia.  Please do not attempt to replace it without consulting the talk page.

Removed: '''While the political and economic elites which rule the earth can (with the exception of the Japanese) fairly be described as &quot;White&quot;, these elites do not rule exclusively for the benefit of White or Caucasian people as a group. These ruling elites have, on the contrary, extended civil rights and economic opportunities to those of other racial and cultural backgrounds who from a White nationalist viewpoint can be viewed as competing for opportunities with less favored members of the White race.'''

-- [[User:Alterego|Alterego]] 10:59 12/2/2004

== lincoln quote ==

I revised the introduction to the Lincoln quote.  First, there is no evidence in the quote that Lincoln was opposed to the civil rights movement; any claim is an anachronism, any way.  Second, as introduced the quote violates our [[Wikipedia: No original research]] policy.  This quote is an example of a primary source; the way it is placed in the article interprets it a particular way.  This is a perfect definition of &quot;original research.&quot;  If we can cite secondary sources that argue that Lincoln was espousing the same views held by White Nationalists today, then we can say &quot;According to X, Lincoln himself espoused the same ...&quot; and provide a proper citation.  That is how to write an encyclopedia article. [[User:Slrubenstein|Slrubenstein]] 03:05, 6 Feb 2005 (UTC)

== A new kind of Whte nationalism? ==

As I was searching through the internet I found a WN website that describes itself as &quot;Pan Aryanism&quot; and they call there organization the Pan Aryan National Front. In the past, WN's have only defined white as Germanic and Nordic people of Northern European decent, but this Pan Aryan WN group accepts non-European whites, such as Syrians, Lebanese, Turks, Iranians, North Africans, etc. The website for the Pan Aryan National Front is, http://www.panf.info/upload/index.php?styleid=1 , I thought this odd kind of WNism would be kind of interested for many people who work with this article.--[[User:Gramaic|Gramaic]] 19:12, 3 Apr 2005 (UTC)

----

Here are the rules for there group in who is defined as white.--[[User:Gramaic|Gramaic]] 19:15, 3 Apr 2005 (UTC) ;

This is the central premise of Pan Aryanism regarding racial definition:

An individual aboriginal to Europe, North Africa, the Middle East and Central/West Asia who is Caucasoid descened in whole or overwhelmingly from the following Caucassdoid subraces, or any combibation thereof, Indo-European (Aryan) Old European, Ural Altaic Caucasoid, or Hametic (Basically confined in modern times to Berbers.) irrespective of nationality, religion or modern geographical location.

Given that position Pan Aryanism believes that all racial White sunder that definition are part of out community and must be preserved along with its European core

However

!(1) We do not believe that all of the modern day population of India, Iran, Turkey, the Middle East,North Africa Central Asia , West Asia or Latin America are White

(2) We do believe that under the above standards the following parts of the above areas have White majorities, Iran, Turkey Lebanon, Syria,the Caucasus and Southern Latin America, plus Costa Rica. White minorities in widely varying degrees exist elsewhere in these areas.

(3) We do not believe in combining the White nations into a superstate, or erasing national or subracial differences between Whites.

(4)We do not believe that any White nation is obliged to accept even White immigrants from these areas, though in the New World at least it might be helpful to do so 

(5) We do not believe that any individual White should in any manner be impeded from associating dating or reproducing with only his own nationality or subrace, but we also insist that no 2 racial Whites in love with each other be forcibly seperated, or that the White children produced from such unions shoud ever be treated as anything other than honored and respected members of our community

(6) We believe that no racial White presently in any White homeland should be forcibly removed from that homeland, although this does not impeded that homeland from restricting further entry of any immigrants, even White ones

(7) We discourage any religion incompatable with White survival, and urge Whites confessing such a religion to either convert or strive for a racialist reformation of their creed. However, in the last analysis, we support religious freedom.



== Recent notes ==

Willmcw, with reference to your note in the history:  http://www.skinheadz.com website may remain, but please leave where you have placed it, at or near the bottom of the Pro links, not at the top.  Thanks.

== No King Over Us Button ==

Where's the picture of the button? [[User:Theshibboleth|Theshibboleth]] 00:42, 23 July 2005 (UTC)

:The user who added it did so under a faulty copyright release and so it would have been deleted eventually. Before that could happen he decided that he didn't like Wikipedia so he copied over the images that he'd uploaded. -[[User:Willmcw|Willmcw]] 00:48, July 23, 2005 (UTC)

== Pseudo-WNs ==

Cut a bit out of the previous heading, and changed the neo-Nazi bit to what it is currently, since I think my version is a bit more accurate. Outsiders confusing neo-Nazis, White Supremacists, Christian Identity people, and White Nationalists is common, as is neo-Nazis, White Supremacists, and Christian Identity people claiming to be White Nationalists because it carries a bit more respectability. 

Of course, the more extreme bits of those groups (possibly the majority in some) don't WANT to be called WN's, since they see WNs as being wusses, basically. --[[User:Edward Wakelin|Edward Wakelin]] 21:04, 11 August 2005 (UTC)

: I should point out here that the confusion about what is and is not WNism is in large part self-inflicted; self-professed WNs themselves often do not know what is and is not WNism; the largest area of confusion seems to be conflation of WNism and white separatism.
	</talkpage>
	<talkpage id="9442733" title="Talk:White nationalism/Archive 3">
{{talkarchive}}

==Southern Europeans==
Okay, so what's this BS about White Nationalists having something against Southern Europeans?  That portion of the article is inaccurate and entirely misleading.

I've removed that tripe three times.

Who's the bonehead that keeps putting it back in?  &lt;small&gt;''08:00, August 12, 2005 [[user:Honestly]]''&lt;/small&gt;

:The &quot;bonehead&quot; was one of your fellow editors.  Please be more respectful of your colleagues. You are probably referring to this text:
:*''Some nations of southern Europe, such as Greece, Portugal or Southern Italy, are not considered white by extremist groups because these areas were at one time ruled by non-European invaders; and there is a fear by some white nationalists that in these populations bloodlines have been polluted, or that significant non-European heritage may remain.''
:I'm not sure about the exact wording and reasoning, particularly the last half. But, for many White Nationalists, &quot;White&quot; = &quot;Nordic&quot;. I think we can cover this material better. Would you like to try? -[[User:Willmcw|Willmcw]] 09:16, August 12, 2005 (UTC)

:I've revised it a little, I think that it's a bit simpler now. --[[User:Edward Wakelin|Edward Wakelin]] 15:51, 12 August 2005 (UTC)

::PS, can you describe your edits beyond just &quot;see talk&quot;? That's not infomrative in and of itself and makes editors dig through the talk page to see what you're talking about. Discussion in talk pages is very welcome, but so is a little note in the summary giving the gist of the edit. Thanks, -[[User:Willmcw|Willmcw]] 19:35, August 12, 2005 (UTC)

Many white nationalists don't consider Southern Europeans to be of the White race. Ever hear of [http://www.nordish.net The Nordish Portal] or [http://www.skadi.net Skadi]? --[[User:Gramaic|Gramaic]] | [[User talk:Gramaic|Talk]] 21:55, 12 August 2005 (UTC)

:Put that in, didn't I? I basically shortened the sucker to &quot;Definitions of what is white change&quot; or something along those lines. If you listen to the Mediterranean Supermacists or whatever they call themselves, it sounds awfully odd: If the Nords ain't white, what are they?

:: Pink and too thin? [[User:128.135.121.91|128.135.121.91]] 01:35, 14 March 2006 (UTC)

---------------
Comments from Skadi-tNp member (myself)

Nordish Portal and Skadi are NOT White Nationalist.

Skadi is NOT for White Nationalism, it's for Germanic preservation.
Germanics are a WHITE subrace.

These forums support Europe but they are dedicated to NORDISH (not Nordic) preservation of Northern European racial types and culture.

==White nationalism and White Supremacy==

A number of the &quot;Pro&quot; groups listed on this page are actually overt White supremacist groups, ranging from mild to neonazi. This page is highly biased in favor of white nationalism; and serves as a way to send people off to White supremacist websites as if there was no difference between White nationalism and White Supremacy. The entire page needs a rewrite to be more NPOV. --[[User:Cberlet|Cberlet]] 13:23, 31 August 2005 (UTC)

:On this point:

:1)  The White Supremacism vs White Nationalism split should be appropriately solved by removing White Supremacist groups to the relevant page: an action which I leave to you.  

:2)  Ygg, Stormfront, and Nationalvanguard are not however supremacist.   I invite study of these sites.

:3)  In general your actions betray a fascistic intention to equate White Nationalism with White Supremacism and condemn both, and to enforce this judgment irrespective of any attempt at NPOV.  

:You have an entire separate article dedicated to White Supremacism: apparently you want to have two.  

:Is it too much to request that you keep comments about White Supremacism in the appropriate article???

::There is indeed a difference between White Nationalism and White Supremacy, but this article offers no scholarly cites to explain that difference. Many of the groups listed are routinely described as White supremacist in scholarly studies (and in many published articles), and for good reason. Is it too much to ask that this page not be based on a total fictions that mask overt White supremacist racism?  If you want to move the White supremacist groups, please do so. I think the distinction is useful. I dispute your claim that Ygg, Stormfront, and National Vanguard are not White supremacist. If you wish, let's discuss them one at a time. As a common courtesy, could you please sign and properly format your posts on this page?--[[User:Cberlet|Cberlet]] 13:28, 8 September 2005 (UTC)

===Stormfront===

::'''Stormfront''' This link displays a calendar of so-called &quot;White Nationalist&quot; events. &quot;Dr. William L. Pierce Memorial Literature Distribution&quot; dedicated to a neonazi. &quot;Ku Klux Klan - Fall Unity Gathering 2005&quot; needs no further explanation. &quot;Hammerfest 2005&quot; a gathering of racist skinheads. &quot;2005 CJCC/AN World Congress&quot; that expands to be the Church of Jesus Christ Christian / Aryan Nations annual meeting. This event is sponsored by an overtly racist Christian Identity roup that thinks Black people are subhuman creatures and Jews are the spawn of the devil and must be exterminated in an apocalyptic race war.--[[User:Cberlet|Cberlet]] 13:43, 8 September 2005 (UTC)


:::Thanks for feedback Cberlet.  

:::Stormfront is primarily a discussion forum with a wide variety of opinions represented: this inevitably includes Supremacist opinions.  

:::However the fact it links to overt Supremacist sites in its calendar (thoug it does not AFAIK describe them as White Nationalist, please check http://www.stormfront.org/forum/calendar.php) does not in itself make it White Supremacist.  

:::On detail, Pierce was not a neonazi, if by that you mean a nostalgic devotee of National Socialism: the CI are unquestionably Supremacists and often creepy religious maniacs as well: and the KKK groups typically deny Supremacism as a public front but fervently believe it in private (but this varies, some are outright Suprmacists). 

:::These points however are relevant to a designation of these respective groups or sites, but have no relevance whatever to a discussion forum that merely mentions them.   

:::I'd have no objection to you describing SF as a &quot;discussion forum with a range of opinions including overt White Supremacism,&quot; since that is accurate.  However there is in fact no way of defining the stance of a discussion group outside the rules it imposes on its members.  

:::These rules may be accessed at http://www.stormfront.org/forum/showthread.php?t=4359 and I quote them below.

::::Welcome to the Stormfront discussion board!

::::Our mission is to provide information not available in the controlled news media and to build a community of White activists working for the survival of our people.

::::If you have technical questions regarding the operation of this board, you should first check the FAQ or use the search option for the Questions about this Board conference. If you can't find the answer to your question, feel free to ask there.

::::Guidelines for Posting:

::::DO NOT advocate or suggest any activity which is illegal under U.S. law.

::::Keep discussion civil and productive

:::: No profanity. Avoid racial epithets.
:::: No personal flames.
:::: No attacks against other White nationalities.
:::: If you wish to debate religion, you must request to join the Theology usergroup. Religion is a personal issue which often becomes bitterly divisive.
:::: Make an effort to use proper spelling, grammar and capitalization (no ALL-CAPS posts).
:::: No spamming. Don't post unless you have something relevant to say.
:::: Post only to appropriate forums.
:::: Post only under one user name. Anyone with &quot;multiple personalities&quot; will have all their accounts deleted.
:::: If you're here to argue with us, confine your posts to the &quot;Opposing Views&quot; forum if you don't want them deleted.

::::Before you post anything, remember that words have consequences, both for you and others. This is true even if they're posted pseudonymously on a discussion board. Don't come back in a few months or years and ask us to delete all your posts because you can't take the heat or you've &quot;changed your mind.&quot; It wouldn't make much difference anyway, since public posts are cached by search engines and recorded by countless other people with varying motives.

::::If you have any questions, feel free to ask a moderator.  
  
:::I invite you to discern a supremacist posture in these rules.  

:::More generally: there is a considerable degree of justice in your original criticism concerning the overlap of &quot;White Supremacism&quot; and &quot;White Nationalism&quot; in the sites appended to this article, and I agree with your initiative in moving certain sites out.  It is of course impossible to stop people adding their favorite sites willy-nilly, but, since I oppose Supremacism, I would prefer to cooperate with you to the greatest extent possible. 

:::I hope this signature is correct : [[User:Pinlighter|Pinlighter]] 19:08, 8 September 2005 (UTC)

:::::Stormfront is a White Supremacist organization trolling for converts by posing as a White Nationalist organization. See this article: [http://www.usatoday.com/life/2001-07-16-kid-hate-sites.htm]. It is run by Don Black, a White Supremacist with a long and notorious history. --[[User:Cberlet|Cberlet]] 20:42, 8 September 2005 (UTC)

::::::USA Today is a popular, low-quality, daily, newspaper :[[User:Pinlighter|Pinlighter]] 15:27, 9 September 2005 (UTC)

::::::Just posting the rules of a forum doesn't really prove anything, unless the administrators and moderators make sure those rules are 100% followed, and never step over the line. --[[User:Edward Wakelin|Edward Wakelin]] 19:49, 6 October 2005 (UTC)

:::::::That's a pretty ludicrous standard.  By that standard, democraticunderground.com is an antisemitic website because some of its thousands of posters may be anti-semites.  The bottom line is that Stormfront is intended to be White Nationalist, per its rules.  [[User:64.110.214.176|64.110.214.176]] 02:43, 20 June 2006 (UTC)



===National Vanguard===

Here is the membership requirement for National Vanguard.

&quot;Persons of Jewish descent, homosexuals or bisexuals, criminals, persons with a non-White spouse or sexual partner, or persons with more than an undetectable trace of non-White ancestry are specifically barred from membership.&quot;

Biological White Supremacy in a nutshell. Several of the writers listed on the table of contents are well known White Supremacists.

::Huh?  Restricting membership to law-abiding heterosexual whites with white partners/spouses is &quot;supremacy&quot;?  Perhaps you can explain, given the definition of supremacy we're all working with here outside of Bizarro World.

Here is an example from H. Millard:[http://www.nationalvanguard.org/story.php?id=5561]

&quot;Fast forward to today when immigration is not primarily from White Europe, but from the Brown Third World. Will a Brown America be the same as a White America? Of course not. The genetic mix will determine the nature of the country, as it always has and as surely as the ingredients and their quantities in a recipe in a kitchen determines the nature of the meal. If current trends continue, we're going to be a Brown Third World nation, not a White First World nation. You may think this is a good thing, or you may think it is a bad thing, but that's where we're heading unless things change. And it has little to do with illegal vs. legal immigration. 

&quot;So, what does becoming a Brown Third World nation mean in a practical sense? Well, just for the heck of it I grabbed some statistics on two states that I knew were different from each other genetically but which were similar in other important ways, such as income and population size, to see what a less-White America promises. You can do the same thing for different states and will probably come up with even greater disparities, but here's what I came up with between New Mexico and Maine. New Mexico is the 39th most populous state and Maine is the 40th. If humans are fungible, you might expect to see similar violent crime rates among different populations. That's not what we see in these two states and its not what we see in any examples that I've ever seen. My guess is that if you took all the people of Maine and put them in New Mexico and you took all the people of New Mexico and put them in Maine that the violent crime rates of the two states would be reversed. It's not the geography that matters, but the people. 

&quot;According to the 2000 Census, the estimated population of the state of Maine was 1,274,923 and it was 96.9% non-Hispanic White. The violent crime rate was a very low 109.6 per 100,000 people. This makes it the 49th most violent state. 

&quot;Contrast that to the state of New Mexico with 1,819,046 residents and which was only 44.71% non-Hispanic White. The violent crime rate was a very high 757.9 per 100,000 people. This makes it the 4th most violent state. 

&quot;As the percentage of Whites in the population of America drops, so too, among many other things, will the crime-free First World quality of life drop. Think not? Prove me wrong with facts and figures. I have an open mind, and I'm willing to listen to logical arguments. But don't try to tell me that apples are the same as pears.&quot; [http://www.nationalvanguard.org/story.php?id=5561]

White Supremacist polemic.  --[[User:Cberlet|Cberlet]] 21:00, 8 September 2005 (UTC)

Let's trace over these points:

::&quot;Persons of Jewish descent, homosexuals or bisexuals, criminals, persons with a non-White spouse or sexual partner, or persons with more than an undetectable trace of non-White ancestry are specifically barred from membership.&quot;

:::REPLY: Where is the statement here about '''superiority'''?  There isn't one.  Just what rules would you expect a White Separatist organisation to employ other than &quot;Whites only?&quot;  

::: You really are reaching with this one : [[User:Pinlighter|Pinlighter]] 15:28, 9 September 2005 (UTC)

::&quot;As the percentage of Whites in the population of America drops, so too, among many other things, will the crime-free First World quality of life drop. Think not? Prove me wrong with facts and figures. I have an open mind, and I'm willing to listen to logical arguments. But don't try to tell me that apples are the same as pears.&quot; [http://www.nationalvanguard.org/story.php?id=5561]

:::(plus other similar articles)

:::REPLY: White Supremacism is the assertion that Whites are globally superior to all other races.  This is not the same thing as the assertion, backed up as here by careful documentation, that they are less criminal than '''some''' other non-white groups.  

:::National Vanguard is careful to point out this from time to time to ensure balance

:::For example here, is the front page of National Vanguard today: an article describing the excellent behaviour of non-whites in Japan following a hurricane far more severe than Katrina:

::::Super-Typhoon Nabi Leaves 300,000 Homeless in Kyushu, Japan
::::Report; Posted on: 2005-09-08 15:03:26
::::'''No looting, raping, robbing or lynching seen in the aftermath of Japan's monstrous super-typhoon Nabi. Rescue workers work without attacks, remain unmurdered.'''
::::http://www.nationalvanguard.org/printer.php?id=6030
 
: [[User:Pinlighter|Pinlighter]] 15:29, 9 September 2005 (UTC)

::::::In this dreamworld, overt vicious anti-Black White supremacist diatribe is OK, because it is accompanied by philo-Asian exceptionalism? What nonsense. Feel free to promote your racist dogma elsewhere, but here, the standard rules of Wiki apply. The vast majority of scholarly and reputable published sources consider these groups lurid racist bigots. That some of these White Supremacist groups now try to mask that by claiming to &quot;merely&quot; be White Nationalist to gain recruits is an important aspect of rejecting your claims. Wiki editors need not be clueless about this dishonest campaign. Feel free to complain or ask for comments or whatever, but I contend that it is easy to show that National Vanguard and the other groups are White Supremacist. --[[User:Cberlet|Cberlet]] 16:45, 9 September 2005 (UTC)

:::::::It's interesting that you've gone from &quot;supremacist&quot; to &quot;not OK&quot; in your characterizations.  In other words, you concede the point.  :)


::Well, we are certainly gaining recruits hand over fist, though this article has little to do with it.

::I'll try to reach out to you in courtesy again.  

::White Supremacism requires the idea that whites are Supreme: that is, superior to other races, and moreover to **all** other races.  There is a furthur implication that whites have the right or duty to rule other races.  

::Neither NatVan nor the WN movement in general are &quot;Supremacist&quot; in this or any other reasonable sense.   

::Saying that we are is a slander.  We do not advocate white rule of non-whites, white interference with non-whites, or white contact with non-whites in any way, and we do positively advocate respectful and just treatment of non-whites where contact is unavoidable.  

::The fact that you can't see us as any thing but genocidal horrors is your problem, I'm afraid.  We are not genocidal, and we are not horrible.

::I have a limited amount of time to spend on this, and I think I have ascertained that your ideas on this matter are not amenable to change.

: [[User:Pinlighter|Pinlighter]] 16:55, 9 September 2005 (UTC)


I think the question here is one of who gets to define a term. The broader community or those to whom a specific term is applied. I suspect that &quot;white nationalists&quot; have a different definition of &quot;white supremacy&quot; than others. Since we try to maintain a Neutral Point of View we cannot simply allow a specific interest group to define themselves. [[User:HOTR|Homey]] 18:28, 9 September 2005 (UTC)


::I await your explanation of how the Wiki article on White Supremacy differs from the definition I have used above.  (quite a good article).     

: [[User:Pinlighter|Pinlighter]] 19:55, 9 September 2005 (UTC)

:::I am sorry that you will have to wait. The issue on this page is that many scholars and serious observors of the groups I claim are actually White Supemacist agree with me, not you. Sorry. NPOV means we report the claims of you and your allies, but also rely on the majority view in the academy and major media outlets to craft an NPOV analysis. --[[User:Cberlet|Cberlet]] 21:42, 9 September 2005 (UTC)

==White Nationalism, White Separatism, White Supremacy, Neonazism==
There is an effort to blur the distinctions among these categories on Wikipedia. This is happening at a time when there is also a national recruitment campaign by members and supporters of these tendencies. I think Wikipedia has an obligation to create careful and NPOV articles on these different tendencies, but not allow itself to be used to mislead readers and thus assist White Supremacists and Neonazis in their recruitment. Groups identified as White Supremacist and Neonazi by scholars and reputable ptint publications should not be listed merely as White Nationalist or White Separatist. We can discuss the proper way to do this, but sanitizing reality to help racists recruit is not a proper option.--[[User:Cberlet|Cberlet]] 20:16, 10 September 2005 (UTC)

:Bravo! It also should work in the other direction: Actual White Nationalists/Separatists shouldn't be identified as White Supremacists, neo-Nazis, etc. Of course, this depends on figuring out a reliable method of differentiating them. I'll get started on that as soon as I figure out this &quot;cold fusion&quot; thingy. :p Seriously, though, a good litmust test might be &quot;What do they think of Jared Taylor?&quot; If they think he's a wuss, they probably aren't White Nationalists. --[[User:Edward Wakelin|Edward Wakelin]] 20:02, 6 October 2005 (UTC)

::No, Not quite.  Jared Taylor is controversial among WNs because he essentially refuses to address any WN issues concerning Jewry, and refuses to allow the matter to be discussed at Amren.

::White supremacists are best sussed out by their insistence on white supremacy.  Simple, isn't it?  Manifestations of this include an insistence on European superiority and denial of evidence to the contrary, e.g., refusal to accept as valid I.Q. studies that consistently show east Asians and Jews have higher mean I.Q.s than Europeans.  To be frank, the problem people have vis-a-vis categorization of politically-ethnocentric whites is that they want to refer to them all as white supremacists because the term has negative popular cache, sounds more aggressive than WNism or white separatism, and makes for better guilt-by-association ad hominem.  More to the point, white supremacists constitute a small minority of politically-ethnocentric whites, which doesn't serve the purposes of demonization well.

::White separatists want separate living space for Europeans.  Simple, isn't it?  In my experience most WNs are also white separatists.

::White Nationalists believe in the 14 words, in race as nation.  Ergo, WNism doesn't require white separatism and allows for a diaspora mentality within multiracial nations.  Essentially, WNism is compatible with multiculturalism.

::btw, this article is still a poorly-written, inaccurate piece of crap, which is to be expected here at censor-central.  I suggest that an article on racial nationalism would go a long way towards solving the problem.  Whites have far fewer problems with non-white racial nationalism per se than they do with WNism and so would be less likely to ruin an article on the former as they have the latter.  An RN article would allow the basics of RN to be explained without the sin of including whites.  Then smaller articles could explain the specifics of WNism, BNism, JNism (or point to Zionism), etc.

:::I have seen plenty of self-dubbed &quot;White Nationalists&quot; talk about how whites are superior, talk about how inner-city blacks must be &quot;controlled&quot;, etc. I don't know if White Supremacists are a minority, given that unless someone is bright enough to accept the more nuanced argument of &quot;Different races/ethnicities/cultures are valuable in different ways, as such differences should be protected&quot; over the simpler, more emotionally &quot;easy&quot;, and thus more successful &quot;Whites are superior, and thus should protect themselves from breeding with lesser races&quot;. And even people and groups that accept the former can occasionally lapse into the latter, because that's politics. 

:::An article on racial nationalism alone would be a good thing. And I agree that more of a line between nationalism and supremacism would be a good thing. But how and where is the line drawn? --[[User:Edward Wakelin|Edward Wakelin]] 13:52, 11 October 2005 (UTC)

::::The previous characterization of white supremacists as those who believe whites are superior in every way is not correct. White supremacists do not necessarily judge their race by any particular metric. The apparent superiority of other races, whether it be in foot races or IQ tests, is rationalized away (fast people are like animals, brainy people are devious, but only white have good character). Also, separatists do not necessarily call for separate nations for each race, many may simply want a return to segregation, with the races living together yet apart. -[[User:Willmcw|Willmcw]] 19:58, 11 October 2005 (UTC)

::::But they still believe they're superior in general. For example, they love Rushton's stuff claiming whites are smarter than blacks, but either just ignore his stuff claiming Asians are smarter than whites, or create some rationalisation about how Asians are less creative (Ignoring paper money, gunpowder, etc). And of course racial separatism doesn't necessitate &quot;race nations&quot;. --[[User:Edward Wakelin|Edward Wakelin]] 20:25, 11 October 2005 (UTC)

:::::I have thousands of posts at Stormfront, many of which confirm that WNs are perfectly capable of acknowledging areas where non-whites are superior to whites (mean northeast Asian and Ashkenazi I.Q., which if you'd read my post above you'd see I'd already acknowledged).  THAT'S WHY I SUGGESTED THE METRIC ABOVE for distinguishing WNism from white supremacy.

:::::For the cheap seats: supremacy means SUPREME.  Look the word up if you must.  SUPREME doesn't mean better in some ways, and worse in others.

:::::As far as Asian creativity goes, you surely must recognize that Europeans have dominated at innovation for half an eon now, regardless of I.Q. means.  It doesn't take a WN to notice noses on faces.

The article is not without its faults, but I admit it is much improved.

: I would like to state here and now, to try to clear up some confusion, that White Nationalism is independent of White supremacism, and is also exclusively White separatist, based on the [http://www.stormfront.org/forum/showthread.php?t=223388 White Nationalist Position Statements]. It was formulated and perfected after much collaboration and discussion, and it is the consensus among White Nationalists. It's probably the best expression of White Nationalist philosophy available.

: White separatism is a part of nearly all of the other ideologies (National Socialism, White Nationalism, and White supremacism). White Nationalism and White supremacism are separate philosophies based on definition (again, see the White Nationalist Position Statements and [http://www.m-w.com/dictionary/white%20supremacy Merriam-Webster's definition of White supremacy]), but National Socialism is compatible with both WN and WS (though most serious NSists are WN). Many people get the impression that WN and WS are one and the same based on the fact that the two philosophies only have one distinction (advocation of supremacy), and organizations of both camps are frequently allied based on the common goal of advancing the interests of White people as a group.

: Hope that helped.

: --[[User:Ryodox|Ryodox]] 02:57, 17 July 2006 (UTC)

==White Nationalism or White Supremacism==

&quot; White nationalism is a political and social movement to advance the social and economic interests of white or Caucasian people.

White nationalists explicitly deny being racial supremacists, arguing that they merely wish for each group of people with shared heritage, including white people, to be allowed to promote and preserve its heritage, and do not desire to oppress or dominate other races as racial supremacists do. Critics argue that white nationalism intersects with, or is a euphemism for, white supremacy or white racism. &quot;

The same could be said for any form of racial nationalism surely? I mean Black nationalists like the panthers or Islamic Nationalists such as the nation of islam are racist too.

:Yes, but the article is not saying that they are not racist - indeed, if you look up the word in an Oxford dictionary, you will see that the article is explicitly saying that they are - but rather pointing out the (alleged) distinction between &quot;white nationalism&quot; and &quot;white supremacy&quot; (in theory, the two are different types of racism, but the former is really just a cover used by the latter). [[User:Elvenscout742|elvenscout742]] 00:01, 19 February 2006 (UTC)

== Definition of White regarding Pan Aryanism ==

An anonymous user constantly deletes that Syrians are accepted by White nationalists who follow the Pan Aryanism ideology, and keeps saying that only Lebanese Christians are accepted as White by these type of White nationalists. Caucasians who are of the Muslim religion are accepted by Pan Aryan white nationalists, and this anonymous user keeps deleting this statement. To prove my point, here's a link to an FAQ list from the Pan-Aryan National Front website, (who are of course Pan Aryan White nationalists). http://www.panf.info/upload/showthread.php?t=4443 --[[User:Gramaic|Gramaic]] | [[User talk:Gramaic|Talk]] 01:35, 5 March 2006 (UTC)

: That's just some stupid message board. And the poster doesn't even know how to spell &quot;Lebanon.&quot; Syrian and Lebanese people are Semitic, Arabic, Muslim and mostly dark. There's no way they would be accepted in bulk by any White nationalists. I've heard of the few Christians in the Middle East being considered non-Arabized remnants of ancient &quot;Aryan&quot; populations, but no more than that. There has to be some connection to Europe for inclusion in the Pan-Aryan movement.

: Anyway, the description of Pan-Aryanism is too long. So I'm shortening it and making it more generic (like the Pan-Europeanism description).

I am including also the following comment, which refers to an aspect of white natinalism that is too often ignored:

On the other hand, some Southern Europeans, especially in [[Greece]], but also in [[Italy]] and [[Spain]], consider Northern Europeans as second-class whites, or descendants of barbarians, based on the perception that most civilizations associated with the white peoples were actually [[Mediterranean]]. HCC.


: Please could you give some citation as where you draw this idea of southern europeans considering northern europeans non-white from?
Im from Spain and whenever Ive read white supremacist books or texts written by Spanish, Ive never seen such thing.

: My understanding has been that historical perception shifted with the fortunes of European civilization. 

:In other words, when classical Greece and Rome were ascendant the view was that they were civilized and cultured, whereas the &quot;barbarians,&quot; the outsiders, i.e. Gauls and those from the North, were uncivilized.  

:After the decline of Hellenic and Roman civilization, this view changed, until the Renaissance, after which it receded and returned, depending upon historical events. 

:I don't know if this means that Southern Europeans viewed Northern Europeans as &quot;non-white,&quot; per se, but there are pre-existing tensions that still complicate politics to this day. Witness the popularity of political separatist organizations like the Northern League, whose establishment is premised upon the notion that there is some qualitative difference between Italians from the Alps, and cities like Florence and Turin, and ones that hail from Sicily and So. Italy. And that Northern Italians, by inference, are genetically or culturally superior. 

:I'm not sure where precisely this fits into the broader debate over white nationalism, but I'm sure that there are white nationalists/supremacists from Mediterranean latitudes who hold views similar to the ones expressed by people such as Umberto Bossi. 

[[User:Ruthfulbarbarity|Ruthfulbarbarity]] 17:37, 3 August 2006 (UTC)

== Capitalizing racial groups by colour? ==

I want to know if there's any consensus on how to capitalize informal names for racial groups (&quot;Black&quot; and &quot;White&quot;, primarily). I always capitalize them myself, but I've seen some inconsistency even within articles (see [[Black nationalism]]).

--[[User:Ryodox|Ryodox]] 02:29, 17 July 2006 (UTC)
:I've been wondering myself. &lt;font color=&quot;Black&quot;&gt;'''The'''&lt;/font&gt; [[User:The Ungovernable Force|&lt;font color=&quot;green&quot;&gt;'''Ungovernable'''&lt;/font&gt;]] [[User talk:The Ungovernable Force|&lt;font color=&quot;black&quot;&gt;'''Force'''&lt;/font&gt;]] 02:31, 17 July 2006 (UTC)

== Acronymtastic ==

WN currently redirects to [[Southwest Airlines]].  I think that people would be more likely to type in WN looking for White Nationalism than Southwest Airlines... thoughts? [[User:Drett|Drett]] 23:16, 24 July 2006 (UTC)

== Racial characteristics beyond appearance ==

[[User:The Ungovernable Force|The Ungovernable Force]]'s latest edit brings up an interesting contention. There is an abundance of information correlating behaviour and IQ to race, and it should be recognized that race will play a large part in defining such factors. Race is clearly the basis for outward appearance, so it stands to reason that it would affect other things, including the brain, and hundreds if not thousands of studies have supported this hypothesis. I understand that discussion of racial differences beyond appearance has been made taboo in our society, but the evidence showing these differences should at least be considered.

--[[User:Ryodox|Ryodox]] 19:15, 26 July 2006 (UTC)
:Yes, it is interesting and I think it should be talked about. It is possible that race could effect IQ and behavior. But there isn't any conclusive evidence that the correlation of various IQ's and such is ''caused'' by race, as the sentence I edited tried to portray. I personally think there probably are some differences that are biological, but I also think that the vast majority of them are due more to culture than to biology. Heck, as the article says, some scientists don't even think race exists outside of a cultural construct! So to say someone's race effects their intelligence and behavior in the same way it effects their appearance is incredibly inconclusive and biased. If someone wants to rewrite those thing in with those clarifications feel free, but the edit I made only undid something that was recently added itself. &lt;font color=&quot;Black&quot;&gt;'''The'''&lt;/font&gt; [[User:The Ungovernable Force|&lt;font color=&quot;green&quot;&gt;'''Ungovernable'''&lt;/font&gt;]] [[User talk:The Ungovernable Force|&lt;font color=&quot;black&quot;&gt;'''Force'''&lt;/font&gt;]] 20:54, 26 July 2006 (UTC)

::There is not necessarily any scientifically valid evidence re the genetic determinants of differences in &quot;race&quot; in America worth cosidering at all. Outward appearance is very powerful as far as something which human beings use to naturally classify things, but as an overall genetic determinant, it's fairly feeble. Consider, for instance, [[Strom Thurmond]]'s daughter by a &quot;black&quot; mother. Given that the mother undoubtedly has some &quot;white&quot; ancestry herself, the daughter is obviously genetically closer, overall, to a &quot;white&quot; American than to any actual Africans. Yet, racially, she is &quot;black&quot; and would be lumped in with [[Desmond Tutu]] rather than, for instance Strom himself. This is true of most &quot;black&quot; Americans, who actually represent a huge assortment of genetic mixes from almost all &quot;white&quot; to almost all African, with a random sampling of Native American, Asian, and pretty much anything else tossed in. And of course, there are an unknown number of supposedly &quot;white&quot; Americans who have an unknown percentage of &quot;black&quot; ancestry. As such, it makes as much sense to try to correlate behavior, test scores, etc. with &quot;blackness&quot; genetically as it would to correlate dogs' behavior with black coloring on a genetic basis. It should be pretty clear that, in the absence of any more sophisticated markers for actual African genetics, any perceivable differences in behavior, test scores, etc. between &quot;black&quot; and &quot;white&quot; Americans would be much more likely to be environmentally linked to skin color than genetically linked, and &quot;serious consideration&quot; of same tends to be limited only to those who have preconceived notions. [[User:Gzuckier|Gzuckier]] 17:51, 27 July 2006 (UTC)

::: @ [[User:Gzuckier|Gzuckier]]:
::: You seem to be under the impression that race is nothing more than skin colour, but as I've said, simple observation will prove the fallacy of this. Ancestry can be genetically tested through [[mtDNA]]. I'll get back to this page soon with the evidence I cite.

::: --[[User:Ryodox|Ryodox]] 19:44, 27 July 2006 (UTC)

::Re: Eugenics. I don't think there has been much &quot;conclusive&quot; evidence-or any reliable, empirical data-proving a correlation between one's race and his or her IQ, or correlation between racial characteristics and IQ in general. 

::I realize that there are many individuals and groups, e.g. eugenicists, racial separatists, among others, who have invoked this argument in the past and present, but I have yet to see any convincing, let alone dispositive, evidence that race and IQ are inherently linked. 

::This reminds me of the continued controversy over the preponderance of African-American athletes in professional sports, and the implication made that it has something to do with genetics, even though there has never been a single study-to the best of my knowledge-demonstrating that African-Americans are more genetically predisposed towards success in athletic competition than their non-black counterparts. 

::Despite the assertion by white &quot;nationalists&quot; that there are genetic differences in this area among races that theory has yet to be demonstrated. In fact, from what I recall William Shockley was thrashed in the much-publicized debate he had with Roy Innis, which involved his contention that whites were genetically superior to blacks. Somewhat embarrassing, considering the fact that Shockley was a brilliant physicist and engineer, and consequently, should have been able to hold his own in a pseudo-scientific debate. 

::Also, I think the issue of interracial marriage and procreation-at least, with respect to the United States-should be considered in this discussion, as someone alluded to earlier. 

::If the view of eugenicists is correct, then they have not provided an adequate explanation for the large segment of the population that is of mixed ancestry. 

[[User:Ruthfulbarbarity|Ruthfulbarbarity]] 03:21, 3 August 2006 (UTC)

I would tend to disagree. Studies have shown, with mountains of indirect evidence, that there probably is a genetic component to intelligence. I find it odd that anyone speaking about this subject would not already know that.

One such study showed that black children adopted into middle-class white families did not, on average, have higher IQs than the rest of the black population. If it is known that white people have a higher average IQ than black people, which has been demonstrated, and that this difference is purely environmental, you should conclude that those black children would have the same IQ as middle-class whites. They did not. This in itself is very convincing for the claim of a genetic factor, as indirect as it may be.

Another study done on white and black children showed that when offered one lollipop that day, or two lollipops three days later, many more of the black children chose one lollipop that day than did the white children. This demonstrates a shorter time-horizon and an inability to maintain personal restraint among the black children, while the white children showed more of an aptitude for thinking ahead.

And still more, a study was done on black and white individuals to determine their &quot;g Factor&quot;, or general intelligence. It basically went as follows: Repeat a series of increments of numbers, adding a set of two numbers when those numbers are given by the instructor. Then, do the same thing but repeat the numbers backwards. For example; 24-35-61, and the sets continue until you cannot continue. Then another set of numbers is given but to be repeated backwards; so the instructor says 34-15-69, but the subject has to repeat the numbers backwards, 96-51-43, etc. The study showed that the black subjects did about as well as the white subjects when adding forwards, but when adding backwards, which requires more &quot;general intelligence&quot;, they faired much worse.

These and a plethora of other studies done on intelligence provide, as I said, mountains of evidence for believing that intelligence is partly genetic.

As for the debate on White Nationalism:

The difference between White Nationalism and White Supremacy, to me, is very simple. White Supremacy advocates hatred through it's belief that whites are inherently superior. White Nationalism does not advocate hatred, although it's adherents tend to believe most of the same things White Supremacists believe. White Supremacists tend to be driven by hatred, while White Nationalists are driven by what they consider rationality and logic. Groups like the National Alliance or National Vanguard, the Aryan Nations or any other neo-Nazi group tend to promote genocide, although it is not seen by them as likely to happen. If you listen to the music these groups promote, the lyrics are often genocidal in nature, such as &quot;piles of dead Jews&quot; or &quot;Holocaust, Holocaust, 2000&quot;, referring to the desire for modern day genocide to finish off the Jews.

White Nationalists such as Jared Taylor shy away from anti-Semitism mainly for two reasons 1) They aren't actually anti-Semetic and 2) Many White Nationalists or Seperatists who are academics, have many Jewish colleagues who are on &quot;their side&quot;. Much of the research done on race and intelligence is done by Jewish scholars. White Nationalists lean more towards anti-Zionism, which they see as a pervasive force within the U.S. government, lobbying, and policy-making. Whether someone is Jewish or not is not a factor, since not all Jews are Zionists and not all Zionists are Jews. They also oppose &quot;Judeo-Christian&quot; Zionists, Evangelicals and Neo-Conservatives who all strongly support Israel. As inherent isolationists, they see the strong support of Israel as not only unnecessary but dangerous, because of it's supposed repracutions with other nations. Political support of Israel by the government is seen as the Israeli lobby's immense power of persuasion over the government, which they believe should not be influenced by foreign powers or U.S. citizens sympathetic to those powers, who for example, often times have familial ties to that nation. The White Supremacists stance is filled with conspiracy thoeries and blind hatred towards Jews.
:Can you show any sources for those studies? Who conducted them? &lt;font color=&quot;Black&quot;&gt;'''The'''&lt;/font&gt; [[User:The Ungovernable Force|&lt;font color=&quot;green&quot;&gt;'''Ungovernable'''&lt;/font&gt;]] [[User talk:The Ungovernable Force|&lt;font color=&quot;black&quot;&gt;'''Force'''&lt;/font&gt;]] 09:16, 3 August 2006 (UTC)

:I don't want to divert this discussion onto an unrelated tangent about Isreal, but suffice it to say I do not agree with the assumption that our pro-Israel foreign policy bears much relation to the lobbying exercised by the Israeli government, any more than I believe our equally strong alliance with Australia is directly related to lobbying undertaken by the Australian diplomatic corps. I think it's more a matter of shared cultural, political, and historical values and common strategic intrests, in both cases. 

:Although I agree with your contention that Judaism and Zionism are not-and have never been-synonymous, as illustrated by the existence of organizations like Nateurei Kartei, ISM, among others, and from an historical perspective, the divisions those who felt that establishing a Jewish state was in the best interests of worldwide Jewry and those who disagreed, I think your analysis fails to take into account the hundreds of thousands-if not millions-of Hindus who support the concept-at least, in the abstract-out of a mutual anxiety stemming from the threat posed by Islam. Granted, the base of support-within this country, at least-comes from Christians, but that is not true in other parts of the world. 

:As far as genetic differences and IQ, perhaps I should clarify my earlier remarks. 

:I'm not implying that there have not been significant studies commissioned in the area of racial differences relative to IQ. However, there have been been other studies that have taken issue with the assertion that racial characteristics are dispositive with respect to collective IQ patterns.

:I'm not going to get into tit-for-tat citation-since this subject has been explored in-depth above, and the discussion would probably be more appropriate for the IQ Wiki-but I will say that I'm not invested, either politically or scientifically, in the debate over the empirical assessment of IQ with regard to race. IQ as a stand-alone factor, at least. My point is that I haven't yet been convinced that there's any significant impact of race upon the respective intelligence of certain ethnic or racial categories.

:That being said, here are a few links to interesting debates on the subject, 

:http://danny.oz.au/communities/anthro-l/debates/race-iq/index.html

:http://www.isteve.com/Articles_Genetics.htm

:http://www.rso.cornell.edu/scitech/archive/95sum/bell.html

:As far as the distinction-insofar as one exists-between white &quot;nationalists&quot;-a self-descriptor that I view to be a misnomer, like the one used by their black corollary, i.e. black nationalists-and white supremacists, I believe that the former is a category specifically invented in order to avoid the obloquy customarily visited upon the former by mainstream public opinion. 

:I'm not saying that there are no differences in rhetoric and/or strategy-there most certainly are-but in terms of substantive philosophical disagreements I do not see any major distinction between people who use Stormfront and those who favor the Vanguard News Network, or the members of the World Church Of The Creator and David Duke's new &quot;white power,&quot; organization, whose name escapes me at the moment. 

[[User:Ruthfulbarbarity|Ruthfulbarbarity]] 16:38, 3 August 2006 (UTC)


[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minnesota_Transracial_Adoption_Study]]

In this study, the IQs of the black children was raised by only a few points. These children's IQ may of been raised by a better environment, yet held back due to social conditions, or any other social stigmas. Or, environmental variables could only do so much for them, raising their IQs slightly, and genetic factors caused the rest of the defecit. Those would be the two major contentions.

I would agree that there are no major distinctions between what most white nationalists and white supremacists believe, but it is important to remember that this fact does not make them one in the same. You are mistaken in thinking that people who call 
themselves white nationalists, or who more often are labeled as white nationalists, are actually white supremacists. Although some of those people who do, such as David Duke, are actually supremacists. There are also different variants of supremacists/nationalists/seperatists. One definition of white nationalist, and probably the most accurate, is one who wishes to maintain a white majority within their respective nation. I will cite an example of an individual who I would consider a white nationalists, who could not be considered a supremacist, unless done so by extremely biased means.

James Edwards is the host of a Memphis radio show called The Political Cesspool. He was a political aide for Pat Buchanan's 2000 presidential campaign. He is a member of a group, Council of Conservative Citizens, which is often called racist or white supremacist. The guests on his show are anyone from Bay Buchanan, to Sonny Landham, to Jamie Kelso, who I believe administrates StormFront. The Political Cesspool is also considered a hate-group by the SPLC. There isn't much controversial about Edward's views on race, except his view that the U.S. should stay majority white to maintain it's &quot;Anglo-Celtic&quot; heritage. He also acknowledges racial differences in IQ, and high levels of non-white crime. He would be a good example of a sort of white nationalist that is extremely moderate when it comes to the racist-right's views on race. Perhaps a section should be created to address this.


:Maybe. 

:I did find an interesting link exploring this seeming dichotomy of views. 

:http://movementexposed.blogspot.com/2005/12/stormfront-fake-fraudulant-and-full-of.html

:Although, to be perfectly honest, a lot of these factional, internecine disputes seem to revolve around fiduciary obligations and mismanagement of funds-and I can't say that David Duke, Don Black, or any of the other white supremacist leaders strike me as being honest with their contributors-with a few ad hoc critiques based upon alleged ideological conflicts. 

:One thing I have noticed is that self-professed &quot;white nationalists&quot; go out of their way not to disavow Christianity, although again I think that's more out of political expediency than genuine belief. 

[[User:Ruthfulbarbarity|Ruthfulbarbarity]] 06:11, 4 August 2006 (UTC)

:: Okay, first, what's with everyone claiming that David Duke is a &quot;supremacist&quot;? I have read and heard much of his views on race; he denies that he's racist (some anti-WN's will probably take issue with this) but his statements about race are certainly reflective of this. But, then again, a White person acknowledging race is enough for him or her to be labelled &quot;racist&quot; by our pitiful modern standards.

:: @ [[User:Ruthfulbarbarity|Ruthfulbarbarity]]: David Duke's White rights organization is called the [http://www.whitecivilrights.com/ European Unity &amp; Rights Organization (EURO)]. Indeed there are few actual inter-organizational ideological disputes; they mostly arise from leadership scandal (a good example is the recent departure Bill White, a former FBI informant, from the National Socialist Movement after he made false allegations of Satanist activities in the organization's leadership).

:: --[[User:Ryodox|Ryodox]] 20:19, 5 August 2006 (UTC)


I don't know about world-wide, but nationalists in the south-east are usually very religious. Yet they dislike most of the modern-day &quot;peace and love&quot; Christianity. They see modern Christianity as &quot;pussified&quot;, but they are nonetheless devout Christians just like their political forebearers, the Founding Fathers, whom they seem to admire greatly. I don't see any difference between the beliefs, politically or religiously, of the people who founded the United States and modern 'racially-conscious' paleo-conservatives.They see old-school isolationist Christianity as the purest form, and wish to maintain it. People like Hal Turner and David Duke probably are not 'true' Christians.

I believe Christian Identity is more of an excuse to further hate people, it's adherents are probably not generally 'good' Christians. But, I don't know any CI adherents, or David Duke or Hal turner, so this is just speculation.

::This is what strikes me as being fundamentally dishonest about the whole &quot;white nationalist&quot; movement. 

::I can't tell you how many WN forums I've visited where there was at least one person with an avatar depicting the Confederate flag, either the Stars &amp; Bars or the &quot;Bonny Blue Flag,&quot; which would seem to contradict the purported goals of the group in question.

::From my perspective the whole term is a bit of an oxymoron, at least as far as Americans are concerned, since this nation was not created as a construction of white identity, and there have always been large segments of America-since its inception-who have disputed the notion that being patriotic  or nationalistic and being white were synonymous. 

::America was founded on a host of concrete philosophical and political ideals, not merely a set of immutable genetic characteristics. 

::But the idea of articulating a desire to return to the CSA seems almost as problematic, even though the Confederacy, unlike the United States, was uniquely based upon the presumed innate superiority of white Americans. 

::Wouldn't white &quot;nationalists&quot; from New England, the West Coast, or other parts of the United States, object to the divisive imagery used by a WN from the South?

::I've seen WN warnings against factionalism of this kind, but to the best of my knowledge it hasn't yet prevented neo-Confederate WNs from promoting their values, which would seem to be at least partially in conflict with the broader goals of some of the aforementioned organizations. 

::I've also noticed a similiar conflict on StormFront, between Irish Republicans and Unionists, and British members who support the Crown. 

::Don't you think these disputes serve to discredit the entire concept of &quot;white nationalism?&quot;

::I mean, if you are truly devoted to worldwide &quot;white unity,&quot; then why would you spend so much time engrossed in sectarian, parochial arguments involving groups like Sinn Fein, the DUP, among others?

[[User:Ruthfulbarbarity|Ruthfulbarbarity]] 22:56, 5 August 2006 (UTC)


America was founded as a nation for white Christians, the Founding Fathers were fairly explicit in letting that be known. None of those points totally discredit the concept since even if they got what they want, there would still be factions. There will always be factionalism, in any nation, within any movement. That doesn't mean those factions can't work together towards a common goal, afterwards working out whatever qualms they have. I agree that there are many different groups of people who work against eachother. For example, paleo-conservative white nationalists don't like Nazis since they make them look bad, and Nazis don't like paleo-conservatives because they are too 'soft'. There are also white nationalists who accept Jews, while Nazis obviously would rather do something entirely different with them.

As political movements though, if their goals ever came to fruition (which they never will in this country), whichever group's ideas had the most support, those ideas would become the mainstream.

:I beg to differ. 

:While there were probably some who viewed the United States as a white-dominated nation in perpetuity there were plenty of others, e.g. Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Paine, Alexander Hamilton, to name just a few, who disagreed vehemently with this notion. 

:Even those founding fathers who did not support racial equality, e.g. Thomas Jefferson, believed that the institution of slavery was detestable, and would need to be abolished in time.  

:You need look no further than the Constitution of the Confederate States of America to discover that your impression of the principles upon which this nation was founded is inaccurate, to say the least. 

:That is a Constitution that is predicated specifically upon the alleged superiority of white Americans, and racial discrimination is explicit-not merely implicit, or sanctioned by default-within the body of its text. 

[[User:Ruthfulbarbarity|Ruthfulbarbarity]] 02:28, 6 August 2006 (UTC)

:Furthermore, I don't see how David Duke's denial of racism validates this point of view.

:Yes, he has also denied being an anti-Semite, if I'm not mistaken.

:I'm sure that if you asked Michael Moore about his weight problem he would deny being obese. 

:Passing off someone's obviously biased opinion of their own beliefs as empirical truth is not a convincing argument. 

[[User:Ruthfulbarbarity|Ruthfulbarbarity]] 02:31, 6 August 2006 (UTC)

Many of the Founding Fathers were abolitionists, a minority of those wanted to integrate freed blacks. You are making it seem like they were all 'multiculturalists'. A majority of them, including a vast majority of the citizenry, had no intention of merging the races. You failed to mention the efforts made by people like Jefferson and John Jay to send freed slaves to West Africa because of their fear of integrational failure. America had a 'white' identity until the 1960's.

::@ [[User:Ruthfulbarbarity|Ruthfulbarbarity]]:

::Regarding the Confederacy issue, some people admire the Confederacy and identify with Southern heritage. It doesn't necessarily mean they literally believe the Confederacy will be re-created.  And yes, I do detest sectarian conflict.

::You also state that the Confederacy was based on the principle of White supremacy, but you are aware that slavery was still widespread in the North even during the War Between the States, are you not? The Emancipation Proclamation liberated the slaves in the Confederacy, not in the Union.  In the article to which this talk page is associated, the Naturalization Law of 1790 is cited as permitting naturalization of any free White person who has been a citizen for two years. The Constitution did not specify &quot;White&quot; because White supremacy in the early Americas was understood. Indeed, it was the rule right up until the 20th century.

::Also, again, I'd like for you to actually read some of Duke's writing and listen to his speeches before forming an opinion of him, instead of taking his detractors' word for it. Certainly he has said some things in the past that might qualify him as a supremacist, but this is not the case now. For example:

::&lt;blockquote&gt;I didn't want to oppress them [Black people], hurt them, imprison them or exploit them. I simply desired to live in a society where my progeny could grow up in harmony and accomplishment, in beauty and brotherhood. I knew that those ideals were possible in a society of my European heritage, and ultimately impossible under integration and multiculturalism.&lt;/blockquote&gt;
::&amp;mdash; David Duke, ''My Awakening'' (1998), p. 170

::--[[User:Ryodox|Ryodox]] 04:31, 6 August 2006 (UTC)

::I'm not going to engage in a North v. South flame war here-I've done that on plenty of other websites, where it was pertinent to the subject under discussion-but suffice it to say, I disagree with you.

::My point wasn't that that the North was a bastion of racial equality. 

::It was that the U.S. Constitution-while flawed-was not ratified for the exclusive purpose of institutionalizing white supremacy, whereas the CSA constitution was. 

::However, the broader point is that white &quot;nationalism&quot;-and again, I think that the term itself is an oxymoron in the United States, for the aforementioned reasons-should, theoretically at least, reject separate divisions along geographic lines. 

::Isn't the objective of many of these individuals to carve out an all-white territory within the United States?

::Perhaps you could illuminate matters. 

[[User:Ruthfulbarbarity|Ruthfulbarbarity]] 05:35, 6 August 2006 (UTC)

@ [[User:Ruthfulbarbarity|Ruthfulbarbarity]]: Indeed, the primary goal of White Nationalism is separation from other races, and this includes the possibility of the creation of an all-White state within the United States.

Also, White Nationalism is called such because it advocates the formation of a cohesion among Whites (ethnonationalism).

==Christian Identity==

:I just looked up Christian Identity, and discovered that it's grouped under a series of articles related to Christianity.

:Am I the only one who thinks this is a bit odd, considering the tenuous-at best-relationship the Christian Identity movement has with orthodox and/or estoteric Christianity?

:Even Fred Phelps-who most people wouldn't consider a conventional Christian-does not have views that accord with this movement. 

:Shouldn't that article be grouped under &quot;fascism&quot; or &quot;white nationalism?&quot; 

:Just a suggestion. 

[[User:Ruthfulbarbarity|Ruthfulbarbarity]] 22:13, 6 August 2006 (UTC)

:Could be... I found this for reference, not sure if is legit or not [http://www.voy.com/206166/] [[User:64.12.116.68|64.12.116.68]] 10:24, 7 August 2006 (UTC)

::Christian Identity is a small Christian branch based on [[British Israelism]], so it would belong in the category of &quot;Christianity&quot; as well as &quot;White Nationalism&quot;.

::--[[User:Ryodox|Ryodox]] 03:50, 8 August 2006 (UTC)

== Dimopoulos and white nationalism ==

There is a book by Dimopoulos on the ethnic origins of the Greeks, and no doubt he claims that Greek culture is superior. That does not make him a white nationalist, but a Greek nationalist. More specific info is needed to categorise him as a white nationalist.[[User:Paul111|Paul111]] 12:26, 17 August 2006 (UTC)

==American Renaissance and the Council of Conservative Citizens==
I was rather surprised to see references to the guiding lights of White Nationalism removed from the White nationalist groups section of this, namely American Renaissance and the Council of Conservative Citizens. The reason given was AmRen and CoCC talk about racial issues, but they don't call for specifically &quot;white nationalism.&quot; Which is roughly the equivalent of saying that the Wall Street Journal talks about business but dont call for improving the economy.  Amren and CCC talk about racial issues, at great length, because they take a separatist/WN position. Yakuman left in references to the neo-Nazi groups, so I can only surmises that in Yakumans opinion, if youre not neo-Nazi, then youre not WN. I am not sure where he came up with this definition, but its not the definition used on this page. 

The current definition used for this page: White nationalism is a variant of ethnic nationalism, advocating a racial definition (or redefinition) of the national group.

The old/former definition on this page: White nationalism is a political and social movement to advance the social and economic interests of white or Caucasian people.

Both Amren and the CCC meet either definition. It is their racial stands, specifically WN, which defines them, not any political stands separate and distinct from race. 

Amren:

From Jared Taylor, editor and founder of Amren: I started American Renaissance 17 years ago in order to awaken whites to the crisis they face and to encourage them to unite in defending their legitimate interests as a race. 

Quote taken from the CCC website &quot;When white people are asked to celebrate diversity they are being asked to celebrate their dwindling influence,&quot; he said. &quot;We're supposed to believe that diversity is our strength, but diversity is clearly a weakness.&quot; Taylor talking about the 2006 American Renaissance Conference; titled The White Man's Disease: The Fantasy of Egalitarianism. Yes you can oppose diversity and not support WN, but lamenting the dwindling influence of white people is purely WN. 
Big meeting in Memphis, TN 

CCC:
 
from &quot;A Statement of the Principles of the Council of Conservative Citizens&quot; 

(2) We believe the United States is a European country and that Americans are part of the European people.

We believe that the United States derives from and is an integral part of European civilization and the European people and that the American people and government should remain European in their composition and character.

We therefore oppose the massive immigration of non-European and non-Western peoples into the United States that threatens to transform our nation into a non-European majority in our lifetime.
 
(European/Western here = white)

(8) Cultural, national, and racial integrity.

We support the cultural and national heritage of the United States and the race and civilization of which it is a part, as well as the expression and celebration of the legitimate subcultures and ethnic and regional identities of our people.  We oppose all efforts to discredit, &quot;debunk,&quot; denigrate, ridicule, subvert, or express disrespect for that heritage.  We believe public monuments and symbols should reflect the real heritage of our people, and not a politically convenient, inaccurate, insulting, or fictitious heritage.

(Talking about Confederate heritage without actually naming it. Neo-confederate groups are by definition WN.)

[[User:Brimba|Brimba]] 18:07, 25 September 2006 (UTC)

==Mediation==
I have submitted this article for a &quot;Request for Mediation&quot; on Wikipedia. Please go here, and sign the article right below my name, and next to the &quot;Agree.&quot; http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Requests_for_mediation/White_Nationalism     [[User:Osmium14|Osmium14]] 16:28, 7 November 2006 (UTC)

: Mediation is not appropriate for simple content disputes. I will rewrite the section, as indicated above.[[User:Paul111|Paul111]] 18:42, 7 November 2006 (UTC)

No. We need mediation because you and I differ on what we consider the &quot;majority&quot; of White Nationalists' opinions are on the issue of a &quot;segregated zone within a nation&quot; or a completely &quot;separate new nation.&quot; I have provided supple documentation for my case, but you reject the FAQ, the WN position statements, and other material such as books. You simply intend on smearing White Nationalism and misrepresenting our movement. I do not acquiesce to your libel. I should've placed a neutrality POV tag on that section too. [[User:Osmium14|Osmium14]] 19:01, 7 November 2006 (UTC)

== Atwater / Powell paragraph deleted ==

The comparison with mainstream nationalist beliefs is already noted, and the critcism is also noted in the Criticism section, so this paragraph had nothing to add. I don't think specific names were necessary here, and removing the paragraph also removes the last citation-needed tags, so on balance removal was better.[[User:Paul111|Paul111]] 10:41, 23 October 2006 (UTC)

===============================================

&quot;Some white nationalists support white separatism&quot;

This statement is ridiculous. All White Nationalists are searatists by default.
	</talkpage>
	<talkpage id="30929518" title="Talk:White nationalism/Archive 4">
==This is not an oped piece==

Phrases like, &quot;which neither reached a consensus on racial categories nor is accepted by contemporary geneticists&quot; have no place in an encyclopedia.  An encyclopedia is supposed to be neutral to the subject matter and not make arguments for or against.  Said quotation is a subjection that makes a political point and does not define what a White Nationalist is, therefor it should be removed.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/66.234.60.132|66.234.60.132]] ([[User talk:66.234.60.132|talk]]) 06:51, 2 January 2011 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Discrimination of Black and White Nationalism ==

It seems to me that there are differences in the Black and White Nationalist wikipedia articles. The BN page features the African American Portal, which links to a large group of African cultural information. Why is WN not considered part of White Culture? Why does Black Culture seem to receive a preference?

[[User:EvanBittle|EvanBittle]] ([[User talk:EvanBittle|talk]]) 18:41, 17 February 2008 (UTC)

Agreed.  This should be looked into.  [[Special:Contributions/129.71.73.243|129.71.73.243]] ([[User talk:129.71.73.243|talk]]) 17:48, 10 November 2008 (UTC)

Not really.  Black and white nationalism may sound similar but they are not.  BN simplistically stated is based on isolation and indepndance, WN is motivated by notions of superiority to non whites and is currently associated with active neo nazi politics.  Also, defining this mysterious 'white culture' appears to be a challenge to the WS.
An encyclopeia reflects the world, it doesnt create it. [[Special:Contributions/77.102.240.29|77.102.240.29]] ([[User talk:77.102.240.29|talk]]) 08:29, 24 October 2009 (UTC)

Also compare wikipedia's article on Zionism[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zionism] -- which is benignly described as &quot;a nationalist Jewish political movement that, in its broadest sense, calls for the self-determination of the Jewish people and a sovereign, Jewish national homeland.&quot;--[[User:Wittsun|Wittsun]] ([[User talk:Wittsun|talk]]) 09:42, 8 June 2010 (UTC)

== A separate state for whites ==

I reverted the edits on this issue. Most self-identified white nationalists do not advocate that white people move to a separate state, most of them do not advocate the creation of a separate white homeland in the northwestern US and Western Canada, and so far as I know not even the farthest fringes suggested that ''all'' white people should move there. White-homeland proposals do exist, in the US and South Africa, but their advocates are a 'minority within a minority'.[[User:Paul111|Paul111]] 10:01, 23 October 2006 (UTC)


Hi paul, that is incorrect. Almost all White Nationalists demand a separate sovereign nation for Whites only. Also, this means that most White nationalists are white separatists too. If you spend any amount of time on Stormfront, which I have, I am an active member on Stormfront, you will find that almost all White Nationalists demand an all-White nation. If you take the word &quot;White Nationalism&quot; and break it down, you will get this:

White Nationalism

White National

White Nation

The main goal of White Nationalism is for a White nation. For documentation of my membership on Stormfront, my username is Osmium14. For further evidence, I point you to the '''White Nationalist Position Statements''' here: www.stormfront.org/forum/showthread.php?t=223388

Position Statement 1 explicitly states the creation of a White homeland that is free from non-Whites.

[[User:Osmium14|Osmium14]] 19:14, 23 October 2006 (UTC)

:And where would they put this 'white' nation, with its approximately one billion inhabitants? Where is the evidence of support for this option?[[User:Paul111|Paul111]] 19:18, 23 October 2006 (UTC)

We have not determined the location of our future White nation. However, Europe or North America would be good candidates. Evidence for the demand of a separate sovereign nation? 

1) The White Nationalist Position Statements that I linked above talks explicitly about an all-White nation.

2) Just go on Stormfront and talk to the other White Nationalists there, most of them will tell you that White Nationalism is about having an all-White nation. Like I said, it is the main goal of White Nationalists. One of the reputable members such as MuadDib, JohnJoyTree, David Duke, Don Black, or others would agree. [[User:Osmium14|Osmium14]] 19:28, 23 October 2006 (UTC)

:The demand that an ''existing'' nation should be white, is not the same as a demand that a new white nation be created. That is what the section is trying to explain. Polish nationalism was about creating a Polish nation-state, as national homeland for all Poles. By the same logic &quot;white nationalism&quot; would imply creation of a vast new state, uniting all white people. If that was what it advocated, then this article should say so - but the evidence won't support that description.[[User:Paul111|Paul111]] 19:47, 23 October 2006 (UTC)

White Nationalism does imply the creation of an entirely NEW nation. Although, some WNs wish for an existing nation to be all-White, this is not the main objective. The main goal of White Nationalism is the creation of a new nation for Whites only or the dissolution of an existing nation into smaller entities, each small piece would be an independent nation within itself. Thus, we emphasize the birth of an all-White nation. [[User:Osmium14|Osmium14]] 00:14, 24 October 2006 (UTC)

:I clarified the wording on this issue. There is no evidence that the majority of US white nationalists reject their American identity in this way, or that they want to move to British Columbia, or that any substantial number of white nationalists want to create a white superstate. There is no evidence that white nationalists in other countries reject their national identity either, in fact most are aggressively patriotic and chauvinistic. Wikipedia has criteria of ''notability'' and accuracy, and proposals by very small groups, and individual views, merit no more than a mention in an overview article.[[User:Paul111|Paul111]] 09:53, 24 October 2006 (UTC)

So you basically didn't read the White Nationalist Position Statements. The majority of U.S. Wihte nationalists prefer to create a White superstate separate from the non-Whites. [[User:Osmium14|Osmium14]] 16:57, 24 October 2006 (UTC)

:I haven't looked at the statements themselves, but judging by the [http://www.stormfront.org/forum/showthread.php?t=223388 cover letter], it appears that they are the personal ideas of one Stormfront contributor. Based on that document, how can we say what the majority of WNs favor? At most it is what its author and some forum posters agree on. -[[User:Will Beback|Will Beback]] 20:08, 24 October 2006 (UTC)



Paul111 is confused about White Nationalism. The British nationalists, French nationalists, and German nationalists aren't WHITE nationalists. The BNP (British National Party) promotes a Britain for white Britons though. The BNP disagrees with many issues of White Nationalists in general such as creating a nation for all Whites; the BNP espouses the idea of a nation for the native British people and ONLY for native BRITISH people. White Nationalism, on the other hand, is for the creation of a separate state for Whites only. Here is a FAQ from a very reputable member of the White Nationalist movement, his name is YGGDRASIL, he speaks for many White Nationalists, just read up on him on Stormfront and on his webpage: http://www.whitenationalism.com/wn/wn-06.htm   and here's an excerpt of the first question: 

1. Q. What is White Nationalism?

A. The idea that Whites may need to create a separate nation as a means of defending themselves.

Will Beback, I know JohnJoyTree posted his White Nationalist Position Statements, one by one, on the forum, for everyone to vote on, and thousands of White Nationalists voted on the position statements. You can go to the link I gave above, and look in the 2nd post where he lists the statements. These statements can be considered as what &quot;White Nationalism&quot; is about. It is a folly and inaccuracy to think that &quot;White Nationalism&quot; doesn't imply a nation-state. Paul111 does not know what White Nationalism is, nor is he a White Nationalist himself. I am a White Nationalist and I've been with the movement for over 8 years, since 1998.

To say that White Nationalism is not about creating a nation is like saying you like to go swimming without getting wet. It is stupendously illogical. The whole idea of White Nationalism is about creating a nation for Whites to live in. Wikipedia needs to reflect the truth and this article needs to be edited for accuracy. I have provided abundant evidence for my case. [[User:Osmium14|Osmium14]] 23:04, 24 October 2006 (UTC)

:Picking one statement at random, I see that 169 Stormfront subscribers voted, about 88% agreeing with the proposal. We can certainly say that the majority of Stormfront voters support these proposals, but they are not necessarily a cross-section of Stormfront subscribers much less of the whole international White Nationalism movement. We all know that the validity of polls of this type is very low. -[[User:Will Beback|Will Beback]] 23:32, 24 October 2006 (UTC)


Will Beback, that is a baseless accusation without foundation. The polls do represent the general opinion of a majority of White Nationalists. And so does YGGDRASIL's WN FAQ. The majority of White Nationalists in the world do espouse the creation of a nation for Whites only. To mention White Nationalism without affirming the idea of a separate nation is slander and disinformation. If we picked at random any White Nationalist in the world, he or she would agree that this movement is about creating an all-White nation. This is common knowledge to anyone active in the movement. If you believe otherwise, I want to see evidence that the majority of White Nationalists don't espouse the idea of an all-White nation. [[User:Osmium14|Osmium14]] 05:31, 25 October 2006 (UTC)

::The accusation is not baseless. I checked and none of the statements polled more than a couple of hundred votes. Please show me where you find &quot;thousands&quot; of responses. Also, since when is Stormfront the only WN forum? The plain fact is that there's no way we'll ever know what the majority of WNs think. -[[User:Will Beback|Will Beback]] 05:51, 25 October 2006 (UTC)

:I again clarified the text, pointing out that a segregated whites-only zone is not a [[nation]]. The article should stick to standard terminology, and I emphasised the commonalities and differences with other nationalist movements. I also added that is is difficult to judge the degree of support for any option. The only sources are forums and websites, and a 'movement' website might be the work of one individual. But given the amount of patriotic rhetoric, and the emphasis on the heritage of white ''Americans'', I think it is clear that most US white nationalists don't seek to abandon their ''American'' national identity in favour of  a giant White-o-stan. That helps put them in historical perspective, since there is a long tradition of 'white-America' politics, and comparable traditions in other countries.[[User:Paul111|Paul111]] 10:21, 25 October 2006 (UTC)

To have a Wikipedia article on White Nationalism, without stating that WN is about the creation of a White nation is tantamount to talking about swimming without getting wet. This article is a disgrace to White Nationalism and Wikipedia's tradition of accuracy and non-biased factual information. White Nationalism does NOT equate to American nationalism. It has no &quot;American&quot; identity present. The desire to retain an &quot;American&quot; identity is ABSENT. We are not White American nationalists, we are WHITE Nationalists. An American identity would be present in American nationalism, not White Nationalism. Notice when you go to www.stormfront.org, look on the top-left of the window it says &quot;White Pride World Wide&quot; because White Nationalism is a worldwide movement, not an American one.  The request for a segregated &quot;Whites-only&quot; zone is not generally present either, most White Nationalists demand the creation of an entirely NEW nation for Whites only. A segregated Whites-only zone would be a logical stepping stone to an eventual White nation though. But it is not the main goal of White Nationalism. Also, White Nationalism is not &quot;White America&quot; politics. Show me evidence of the tradition of &quot;White-America&quot; politics. There may be a historical perspective and comparable traditions, but they do not relate to White Nationalism specifically. They are isolated events that bear no relationship to the current White Nationalist group. Anyone spending even a small amount on Stormfront will immediately realize what I'm saying. I am editing this travesty of an article to reflect accuracy and truth, rather than libel and slanderous disinformation. I encourage Paul111 and everyone else to go to this &quot;Beginners Guide to White Nationalism&quot; and scroll down to the &quot;White Nationalist Solution&quot; part and read the articles listed there. It will explain to you what White Nationalism is about. http://www.stormfront.org/forum/showthread.php?t=324762 [[User:Osmium14|Osmium14]] 17:23, 4 November 2006 (UTC)

:The 'Beginners Guide to White Nationalism' gets a grand total of ''three'' Google hits. Like any forum post, it is inherently non-notable unless it attracts support. It is not, in itself, evidence for any political movement. There is no evidence for a widespread total rejection of American identity among US white nationalists. Segregated zones are not a nation, and proposals for segregating the United States are not in themselves a proposal to create a new nation. It ''is'' nationalist to seek a new and separate nation-state in the western USA and Canada, but there is no evidence of substantial support for that option. Wikipedia is not a forum, and the purpose of this article is to describe white nationalism, in the context of nationalist ideology in general.[[User:Paul111|Paul111]] 13:04, 5 November 2006 (UTC)


I do not understand why you insist on misrepresenting White Nationalism. Where is your evidence that we only demand segregation within the USA? Most White Nationalists, if not all, demand the creation of a NEW nation for Whites only. Spend a few minutes around on Stormfront and you will quickly get the evidence you need. Why do you insist on this inaccurate description of White Nationalism on Wikipedia is beyond me. Can you at least back up your &quot;claims&quot; with some evidence? Why am I the only one providing evidence? Dr. William Pierce and his articles are widely-read by White Nationalists throughout the country. It takes only a minute to understand the White Nationalist movement. The fact that you still haven't understood it is a testament to your stupidity. I already provided ample evidence with the White Nationalist Position Statements which were voted on by hundreds of people PER position, so if we add up the hundreds, we get thousands of votes for the complete position statement. If you don't think thousands of votes is enough evidence, then there is something wrong with you. It is your turn to provide evidence for your claim now. Or I shall submit this case to Wikipedia to be mediated.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Requests_for_mediation [[User:Osmium14|Osmium14]] 21:47, 6 November 2006 (UTC)

:William Pierce described himself as an American. So do most other white nationalists in the USA. There is no evidence that a majority of white nationalists have abandoned their national identity as ''Americans''. The fact that they seek to [[racial segregation|segregate]] the United States does not make them a separate nation. In discussing [[nation]]s, [[nation-states]], and [[nationalism]], this article should use acepted terminology, and also match the usage at those three articles. The fact that a group of white Americans want to live in a whites-only zone does not, in itself, make them a 'white nation'. The section on relationship to nationalism does note, that a fully-segregated state would no longer be a nation-state, since the national unity has disappeared.

:Online polls at one forum are not evidence, and the voter totals can not be added up since the same people may be voting in successive polls. Additionally, sources quoted by [[User:Osmium14|Osmium14]] often contradict the interpretation he gives to them. For instance, the White Nationalist FAQ by 'Yggdrasil' explicitly identifies white nationalists as European-Americans, and proposes the segregation of the United States by [[Congressional district]]s. It does not state that whites are non-Americans, and it does not identify a new territorial homeland for them. The suggestion that most US white nationalists have ceased to feel American, and are prepared to withdraw from the United States and leave it to non-whites, is inherently unlikely. With a few exceptions, the reverse seems true: they think whites are the real Americans, and that non-whites don't belong there. I suggest that users who are interested in this issue read the articles on [[Basque nationalism]] and [[Breton nationalism]], as examples of what a separatist nationalist movement entails. (The comparison could be added to this article, to help clarify things).[[User:Paul111|Paul111]] 11:27, 7 November 2006 (UTC)

Stormfront is a World Wide forum for White Nationalists everywhere, not just in the USA. If you need further evidence that we demand the creation of a new nation, whether using existing territory from the USA or not does not matter, it is a new nation for Whites only. There is NO EVIDENCE that the majority of White Nationalists demand to live in a &quot;segregated Whites-only&quot; zone within the United States. The author Carol Swain, a black female, has written a book on WN. Her book is called &quot;The New White Nationalism...&quot; and also another book from her is &quot;Contemporary Voices of White Nationalism in America.&quot; These books have quotes from the leading White Nationalists such as Jared Taylor, Don Black, David Duke, and others. The whole point of the movement of White Nationalism is for the creation of a White nation. Your links to Basque nationalism and Breton nationalism are irrelevant! We have a common saying in WN, it is &quot;Our Race is Our Nation,&quot; and this means the rejection of any form of &quot;American&quot; identity. 'Yggdrasil' states in his FAQ in the 2nd question and 1st question that WNs intend to create our own nation, 

Q. What is White Nationalism?

A. The idea that Whites may need to create a separate nation as a means of defending themselves.

Q. Do White Nationalists feel they are superior to other races?

A. No. The desire of White Nationalists to form their own nation has nothing to do with superiority or inferiority.

http://www.stormfront.org/whitenat.htm

I do not agree with some parts of his FAQ (such as a new nation for Whites and a segregated zone for Asians within the &quot;White nation), and this FAQ is old, from 1994 I presume from what I can remember. The White Nationalist Position Statements are better suited as the almost near-perfect opinion of White Nationalists everywhere. I have private messaged Don Black, David Duke, and others about the WN position statements. Also, 'Yggdrasil' posted in the thread for the original position statements. There is abundant evidence that we WNs do want to create a new nation for ourselves only, not living in a segregated Whites-only zone within the USA. YOU NEED TO PROVIDE ME WITH DIRECT EVIDENCE of White Nationalism promoting YOUR IDEA. For the meantime, I am submitting this to be mediated by Wikipedia. [[User:Osmium14|Osmium14]] 16:07, 7 November 2006 (UTC)

: I do not have any white nationalist ideas, and therefore nothing for white nationalists to promote. The purpose of this article is to ''describe'' white nationalism, and not primarily for white nationalists, but for others. The appropriate theoretical perspective is the theory of nationalism, and comparisons with other nationalist movements. That will go some way toward neutrality, and prevent it being used as a propganda vehicle. Wikipedia is not a forum where white nationalists talk to each other, about what they think is the true version.

:If the majority of US white nationalists turn their back on the United States, in the way that [[Timothy McVeigh]] did, then that would be a very significant development, and would deserve a prominent place in this article. But there is no evidence of this, and in the absence of reliable surveys of white nationalist majority opinion, [[Occam's razor]] suggests that the least unlikely view be attributed to them. The section can be re-arranged to start with the minority who ''do'' want to fully secede from the USA, and that will clarify the position of those who consider themsleves 'white' but still American.[[User:Paul111|Paul111]] 18:42, 7 November 2006 (UTC)

:: The comparisons with other nationalist movements are warranted, however, they must be used in perspective. Since this is not American nationalism, we do not have any affiliation with an American identity, or a &quot;White American&quot; one. This article is simply erroneous. Your refusal to submit to your errors is appalling. The majority of White nationalists (NOT JUST US White Nationalists) do not care about the United States or America. There is evidence in the WN position statements, WN FAQ, and with the opinion of the major leaders of White Nationalism. This section needs to reflect reality: the MAJORITY of White Nationalists do want to fully secede from the USA, to create their own nation either using the existing territory of the USA or completely new territory somewhere else. [[User:Osmium14|Osmium14]] 19:07, 7 November 2006 (UTC)

The sections have been re-arranged, rewritten, and the 'race' section combined with the 'definition' section. Criticism and response were moved to the criticism section. The article now says explicitly, that there are no reliable sources for how many white nationalist support which version.[[User:Paul111|Paul111]] 11:50, 8 November 2006 (UTC)
::I current have sources in the form of literature that I can cite in this article. One book is &lt;u&gt;Contemporary Voices of White Nationalism in America&lt;/u&gt; by Carol M. Swain &amp; Russ Nieli. The book is published by Cambridge University Press in 2003. Here is the [http://www.amazon.com/Contemporary-Voices-White-Nationalism-America/dp/0521816734 Amazon link] and [http://www.cambridge.org/us/catalogue/catalogue.asp?isbn=9780521016933 Cambridge link]. However, I don't know how to cite using Wikipedia yet, and don't have time to learn it. I will be adding in new material some time in the future. -[[User:Osmium14|Osmium14]] 17:02, 6 February 2007 (UTC)

== US census ==

hello. i wanted to explain my deletion about the revert i made dealing with hispanics in the US.  first, most 'hispanics' are not from spain, so that was one problem. second, white nationalism is not a US invention, so i really think the entire part about the census is irrelevant.  census and prison population statistics are often a source of confusion.  the census takes into account 'hispanic, not of white origin.'  however, prison data usually adheres to the older tradition of seeing hispanics and whites as one part of the puzzle.  that being said, i really dont think that a self-proclaimed white nationalist uses either population count to justify nor explain his/her position, besides the POV that becomes apparent with related statements.  i suppose thats why i feel that the US census data, as a whole, should be removed.  this isnt just a US issue. [[User:The undertow|The undertow]] 07:48, 28 December 2006 (UTC)
:Okay, but we can later add a passage which is corrected. Perhaps you are right on the US centric definition here, but many Hispanics have Spanish ancestry, as they are either unmixed white or mestizos (=half-white). I think, for white nationalists, being white implies exclusively European ancestry, without any admixture at all, which disqualifies mestizos for their definition. [[User:87.165.117.87|87.165.117.87]] 09:47, 28 December 2006 (UTC)
::im somewhat in accordance.  hispanic has such a broad definition, like latino, that it really has no practical use.  im assuming that hispanic refers to those from hispaniola and spanish refers to those from spain.  latino baffles me, unless its implicit that a latino comes from latin america.  i am not trying to pigeonhole anyone, as african-american can refer to anyone of black heritage, but should be applicable to those who actually derive from africa at some point. mexicans are a derivation, for the most part, of spanish and what we refer to as native americans.  although spanish would be 'white,' the natives are not.  i like your idea of adding a section pertaining to white nationalism in the US, with proper citation.  with that, we could incorporate census data.  im not entirely unopposed to any one idea.  wn as it pertains to europe, esp croatia, germany, etc and the US would be a great passage as to show that white nationalism is not consistent, across the board.  good call.  [[User:The undertow|The undertow]] 10:36, 28 December 2006 (UTC)
:::Yes. I'm not American myself, but I'm quite interested in the topic through some of my American friends. According to the census data, some 48 % of Hispanics see themselves as white and an equal amount as some other race, though this mostly stems from racial perceptions in their home country. Mexicans are actually a mix of native American and European ancestry, the average Mexican as far as I know has around 60 % European and 40 percent native American ancestry. My idea was simply adding that European ancestry alone does not make you white in the strange definitions of white nationalists, it needs to be unmixed white for them - even if mixed whites are undistinguishable from unmixed ones (see Johnny Depp, Mariah Carey). [[User:87.165.117.87|87.165.117.87]] 11:57, 28 December 2006 (UTC)
::::this is an interesting topic and i applaud you for using the talk page.  hispanics do not exist as an absolute. in fact, a good reference would be my puerto rican friends, who refer to women a 'spanish gals.'  it has no reference as to their heritage, as they are from New York and consider J Lo to be a spanish gal. spanish denotes that one is from Spain.  there is no argument there.&lt;br /&gt;if i implied that you were american, i apologize.  i will be so brazen as to add that stats will not work here.  if a mexican finds him/herself .0001 percent native, they do not fall within the realm of white.  the ambiguity may begin here.  blacks, who are a 'hybrid' of 2 races, can claim either race.  however, this article is about WN and WN has no tolerance for any mix, unless it is a white, european mix.  jews are not white according to WN.  and half-bred (lack of a better term) is not white.  &lt;br /&gt;simply, WNs  want to preserve a white race.  any mix dissolves that ideal.  according to your own data, i have never heard a hispanic term themselves as white.  that is new to me.  i do agree that being of euro descent does not classify one as white. turkey, for example, is under huge scrutiny.  im going to regret this, but it  is probably best to ask a WN, in america, to expand upon these feelings. as for myself, i am white, and have only euro ancestory.  i suppose that makes it easy.  but nationalism deals with a regional construct, and that is where it seems this article falls apart.  not to mention, that i feel this article is FAR too long for such a trivial subject.  any and all ideas are appreciated.  i am all about NPOV.  i would still like to work together for a npov section on US WN, and include other citations as well[[User:The undertow|The undertow]] 12:46, 28 December 2006 (UTC)
:::::My point was the usual social perceptions of race vs. the WN perceptions. In usual perception, a mix with one race being dominant and &quot;passing&quot; as a certain race makes someone a member of this race. However, WNs don't accept this, and want 'racial purity'. Turkey is not really a part of Europe nor a European people. Also, (Ashkenazi) Jews aren't white for them, even if their Semitic ancestry is very distant. I think we mostly agree, however, you seem to misunderstand my point. Sorry if my English isn't perfect.. [[User:87.165.117.87|87.165.117.87]] 13:03, 28 December 2006 (UTC)

== White Supremacist &amp; Neo Nazi ==

Be them white supremacist, neo nazis,or by any other name, they are the same. Being that fact that there is no white nation the term white nationalist is incorrect. White nationalist, well first to have a white nation, one would have to get rid of people not considered white. However the fact that these people don't even know the first thing about terms could be a problem. If you are educated you would know &quot;white,black,asian,and hispanic are not way to place race into sections. Hispanic is not a race!! Nor are colors!! The article dares to explain what white as a race is, however last I recall in america the term is in constant flux lacking any formal foundation. However terms that can be changed to included and exclude people at a drop of a hat for particular agendas is what some enjoy. Point being this article like may other is bias.
--[[User:Margrave1206|Margrave1206]] 19:11, 7 January 2007 (UTC)

Look this is disgraceful, White nationalism is fine, just as is blacks being patriotic, and it's been made to look like anyone who says &quot;WHITE POWER&quot; is a neo- nazi, untrue, he loves his people above others, and who doesn't?

This thing needs a cleanup.

[[User:82.2.51.162|82.2.51.162]] 21:48, 31 January 2007 (UTC)
:Except that &quot;my people&quot; doesn't mean &quot;people whose skin is more or less the same shade as mine&quot; to everybody; for some of us, it can mean &quot;people with similar goals, ideals, morals, and vision&quot;. [[User:Gzuckier|Gzuckier]] 15:35, 1 February 2007 (UTC)

:::I hate it when people think race is just skin color. Race is more than just skin color. If you look at albino Africans (Africans with White skin and blonde hair), they look weird and disgusting because their facial features and skull shape don't match Europeans'. Check this out: http://www.thephora.net/forum/showthread.php?t=15317

:::If you take a African person and make his skin white, would he look like a White person? No. The same goes for Orientals, there are some Orientals with lighter skin than most Whites, but due to their slanted eyes and facial bone structure, they'll never look &quot;White.&quot; Race is more than just skin, it combines skull shape, bone structure, height, hair color, eye color, behavior, temperament, brain size, intelligence, and much more. It's in your DNA.

:::There exist races that have distinct physical and genetic characteristics. I prefer to use the terms: Caucasoid, Negroid, Mongoloid as the three dominant races. There are other smaller races, which might be the Aboriginals/Australoids. --[[User:Osmium14|Osmium14]] 06:01, 6 February 2007 (UTC)

::::Sorry to randomly jump in on this, but I have a small point I just wanted to make (just to provoke thought). You make the example that a person with &quot;black&quot; features but white skin as a result of albinism would not be necessarily seen as truly &quot;white&quot; by most people. This claim may have some ground. Perhaps some physical features outside of skin color could preclude a non-white person from being seen as white. But what about a white being person being seen as a non-white? Hypothetically, what if there was a &quot;white&quot; person (&quot;white&quot; meaning physcial features save skin color) with black or very dark skin? I think there is no doubt such a person would be viewed as black, regardless of skull shape, bone structure, intelligence, behavior, etc. In fact, I personally know a few people who are biracial (black-white) and have very dark skin yet their other physical features (at least facial structures) are more like their white parent. These people, at least in the view of most, are black . . . no one ever sees them as white in any way, shape, or form (no pun intended). I have my own reasons for believing why this is the case, but I won't go into them here! That would be another debate.

::::Just to better show of my point, let's take Halle Berry. She is described by many as an &quot;African-American&quot; actress. In fact, she is biracial, half white and half African-American. I think (let me stress the I THINK as this is in no way scientific!) her physical features, outside of skin color, could be described as mostly &quot;white&quot;. But because her skin color is darker and because she is known to be biracial, people label her as African-American.

::::Also, I don't know if the albinism photos are completely fair. The skin color caused by the disorder is extreme; most white people do not have skin nearly so light (myself included). Niether, in the same way, is the hair color of albinos common amongst white people. Therefore, at least in part, these abnormalities of course cause albinos to look &quot;weird&quot;.

::::Just food for thought! Please respond . . . [[User:JeffreyN|JeffreyN]] 04:11, 7 February 2007 (UTC)

:::::If Caucasians have dark skin they are likely to be rejected by white nationalists. Skin color and facial bone structure are the main visual cues. Family history is another requirement but that is not always looked into. Some WN's prefer not to 'scratch too deep' [[User:Pendragon39|Pendragon39]] 07:53, 12 April 2007 (UTC)

==Cites==
&quot;In these ways, '''by the 1830s the Declaration of Independence was read to mean white independence and American nationalism to be essentially white nationalism'''. Taken as a whole, these nationalist arguments reiterated the allegiance to whiteness, valorized the segregationist social solidarity through which whiteness was constructed, and reconciled the violence of slavery as its legitimate expression. '''For the vast majority of white Americans, white freedom, white supremacy, and the concept of a &quot;white nation&quot; were all one idea, one national ethos.'''

&quot;This national ethos would inhabit the most banal of social pronouncements. For instance, in arguing against abolition in 1836, Senator Leigh of Virginia mentioned white mob riots against the black communities of Cincinnati, Philadelphia, and New York, and asked what worse social disorder would have erupted bad there been general emancipation (Horsman, 1981: 209). There was no thought of charging the white mobs with criminal behavior, or bringing their instigators to justice. In his view, the white mobs were simply demonstrating the Anglo-Saxon propensity to dominate and enslave other races. Whites who argued for emancipation were the real outlaws and traitors for advocating what would have fomented even greater mob violence. In short, for Leigh, black people should be enslaved for their own good, so that good civilized white folks would be spared the necessity of mob barbarity.

&quot;'''This &quot;nationalist ethos&quot; even infected the antislavery arguments of the several antislavery parties in the North and Midwest (those that would later coalesce into the Republican Party). Though they argued that slavery was morally wrong, it was because it produced inequality among whites, not because it was inhuman toward blacks.''' Slave owners had a decided social and political advantage over non-owners, by wealth and the votes they controlled. In addition, white workers were at a disadvantage where slave labor could be employed in the same jobs more cheaply, thereby reducing overall labor conditions. These parties managed to get slavery gradually abolished in the North, after which they contented themselves with obstructing slavery's extension to the new territories. Nevertheless, they ultimately supported black disenfranchisement in both areas. In effect, antislavery was predicated on white supremacy rather than on human dignity and human rights. Only the radical abolitionists considered the humanity of the bond-laborers--which sometimes meant calling nationalism itself in question. For instance, against white nationalism, William Lloyd Garrison (1805-1879) proposed his &quot;disunion&quot; thesis, and attempted to articulate the construction of a different form of nation altogether...&quot;

The cultural roots of interventionism in the U.S. Social Justice March 22, 2003  [[User:Yakuman|Yakuman ()]] 09:39, 13 April 2007 (UTC)

:Thanks. -[[User:Will Beback|Will Beback]]  [[User talk:Will Beback|]]  17:12, 13 April 2007 (UTC)

== FAC? ==
Damn; this is an unusually well-cited article.  With just a little work, this could be a FAC.  &lt;small&gt;Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/74.140.211.161|74.140.211.161]] ([[User talk:74.140.211.161|talk]]) 16:09, 15 April 2007 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt;

== &quot;Ethnicity&quot; ==

The source used to claim that White nationalism is a form of Ethnic nationalism, in fact, says the opposite:
&lt;blockquote&gt;For most Americans, whiteness is still a fairly artificial identity; people tend to be far more conscious of religious or ethnic background.[http://www.firstthings.com/article.php3?id_article=2047]&lt;/blockquote&gt;
Ethnicity is clearly seen as something different from &quot;whiteness&quot;. [[User:Jayjg|Jayjg ]]&lt;sup&gt;&lt;small&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;DarkGreen&quot;&gt;[[User_talk:Jayjg|(talk)]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;/sup&gt; 22:48, 25 May 2007 (UTC)

== Possible use of an unreliable source ==

[http://www.white-history.com This website here] is being referenced, but it seems to be pushing [[WP:FRINGE|fringe theories]].-'''[[User:HisSpaceResearch|h i s]]'''   &lt;sup&gt;''[[User talk:HisSpaceResearch|s p a c e]]''&lt;/sup&gt;   &lt;sub&gt;'''[[Special:Contributions/HisSpaceResearch|r e s e a r c h]]'''&lt;/sub&gt; 22:03, 12 August 2007 (UTC)

:Self-published books, such as &quot;March of the Titans&quot; are not considered reliable sources. [[Special:Contributions/Will_Beback| : ]][[User:Will Beback|Will Beback]]  [[User talk:Will Beback|:]] 21:29, 13 August 2007 (UTC)

==NPOV issues==
Wow, this article seems like it was written by a white nationalist. It gives undue weight to the views of white nationalists, and tries to diminish the merit of the opposing views, which are hardly expressed within the article.--[[User:Sefringle|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#CC7722 &quot;&gt;Sef&lt;/span&gt;&lt;span style= &quot;color: black;&quot;&gt;rin&lt;/span&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;color:#808000;&quot;&gt;gle&lt;/span&gt;]]&lt;sup&gt;&lt;small&gt;[[User talk:Sefringle|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#4169E1&quot;&gt;Talk&lt;/span&gt;]]&lt;/small&gt;&lt;/sup&gt; 22:56, 19 August 2007 (UTC)

:hasn't changed.[[User:P4k|P4k]] ([[User talk:P4k|talk]]) 08:04, 26 January 2008 (UTC)
::no it hasn't, and this article clearly needs cleanup. '''[[User:Yahel Guhan|&lt;span style=&quot;color: #008080&quot;&gt;Yahel&lt;/span&gt;]] [[User talk:Yahel Guhan|&lt;span style=&quot;color: #000000&quot;&gt;Guhan&lt;/span&gt;]]''' 03:43, 14 February 2008 (UTC)
:::I think its getting a lot better, perhaps we need some fresh sets of eyes to cast over it. -- [[User:The Librarian|~   ]] ([[User talk:The Librarian|talk]]) 03:47, 14 February 2008 (UTC)

==Religion==
Do white nationalists identify with any particular religion?--[[User:AveryG|AveryG]] ([[User talk:AveryG|talk]]) 23:36, 14 August 2008 (UTC)
:Nope, not really. A fair majority are Christian-oriented (Protestant/Roman Catholic); however others are agnostics, atheists, pagans, Buddhists... It runs the whole gamut. So, nope.  [[User:Sasoriza|Sasoriza]] ([[User talk:Sasoriza|talk]]) 09:54, 6 September 2008 (UTC)
::Buddhists? Yikes, that would be interesting, since Buddha wasn't white. Then again, neither was Jesus! [[User:Stonemason89|Stonemason89]] ([[User talk:Stonemason89|talk]]) 01:59, 10 June 2010 (UTC)

Many white nationalists view Christianity as a alien cultural import into Western Civilization. Christians were considered contemptible in the early Roman Empire[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persecution_of_Christians_in_the_Roman_Empire#Reasons_for_persecution] for reasons Nietzsche delineates.[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Antichrist_%28book%29]. While some white nationalists prefer pagan traditions[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hellenic_Polytheistic_Reconstructionism] others gravitate towards Creativity or Nature's Eternal Religion.[http://www.creativityalliance.com/downloads.htm]--[[User:Wittsun|Wittsun]] ([[User talk:Wittsun|talk]]) 09:54, 8 June 2010 (UTC)

==Racism on Wikipedia==
I've noticed that the white nationalist article has tags like &quot;discrimination&quot; and &quot;controversial&quot; on the talk page while black nationalism has &quot;black diaspora&quot;.  Aren't they basically the same thing?  I think it clearly violates the NPOV rules.  [[Special:Contributions/129.71.73.243|129.71.73.243]] ([[User talk:129.71.73.243|talk]]) 17:11, 6 November 2008 (UTC)
:White nationalism shouldn't have a black diaspora tag because the two are not very relevant. The black nationalism article does not seem to be very controversial (i.e. not a lot of edit wars), so it probably should not have that tag. Is black nationalism relevant to [[Wikipedia:WikiProject Discrimination]]? Maybe it is, but that is for that WikiProject to decide. Hope this helps. Regards, &lt;font color=&quot;404040&quot;&gt;[[User talk:Skomorokh|&lt;font face=&quot;Garamond&quot; color=&quot;black&quot;&gt;the skomorokh&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;/font&gt; 17:14, 6 November 2008 (UTC)
:I agree with the numbers, I am deleting that discrimination tag right now. WN has nothing to do with discrimination. It is like saying the sole fact of being white is discriminating! [[WP:BEBOLD]]--[[User:Eros of Fire|Eros of Fire]] ([[User talk:Eros of Fire|talk]]) 20:54, 20 November 2008 (UTC)

::Project tags don't mean that an article concerns the name of the project. It means that members of the project are including the article in their project. Projects are usually interpreted broadly. Further, this is a talk page and not the actual article. I've restored the tag pending agreemtn by project members that this article is no longer a part of their project. [[Special:Contributions/Will_Beback| : ]][[User:Will Beback|Will Beback]]  [[User talk:Will Beback|:]] 21:39, 20 November 2008 (UTC)

==R1b not is the aryan haplogroup==
R1a is the aryan eurasoid haplogroup and I is a european haplogroup; R1b is a non-Aryan haplogroup!!  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/189.71.57.156|189.71.57.156]] ([[User talk:189.71.57.156|talk]]) 09:26, 22 April 2009 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Inclusion of &quot;KKK&quot;.   ==

I removed the Ku Klux Klan from the list of groups advocating White Nationalism.  As the [[KKK |KKK article]] itself quite clearly states, it is far from being a monolithic organization in the 21st Century and it's nothing short of absurd to characterize every upstart group identifying with the KKK as fitting neatly into the White Nationalist mold.  If someone has reliable sources identifying ''particular'' KKK groups as WN, feel free to add them, but at this point in history it's kind of pointless to paint the KKK in such broad strokes.  Also, though I am DEFINITELY nothing even vaguely resembling a White Nationalist, it's hard to argue that associating all White Nationalists with the KKK creates a very, very emotionally charged situation, especially in the US. [[User:Wormwoodpoppies|Wormwoodpoppies]] ([[User talk:Wormwoodpoppies|talk]]) 03:41, 5 May 2009 (UTC)
:You are certainly correct that the KKK movement has splintered into a number of groups. But do any of the KKK groups hold positions different from white nationalism/supremacism? If anything connects them I'd have thought that was the common link. &amp;nbsp; &lt;b&gt;[[User:Will Beback|&lt;font color=&quot;#595454&quot;&gt;Will Beback&lt;/font&gt;]]&amp;nbsp; [[User talk:Will Beback|&lt;font color=&quot;#C0C0C0&quot;&gt;talk&lt;/font&gt;]]&amp;nbsp; &lt;/b&gt; 04:17, 5 May 2009 (UTC)
:I'd further note that in the heyday of the KKK, it was undoutedly a proponent of white nationalism. Overall, I think it shold be restored, and I don't think we'll have any trouble finding sources to support its inclusion. &amp;nbsp; &lt;b&gt;[[User:Will Beback|&lt;font color=&quot;#595454&quot;&gt;Will Beback&lt;/font&gt;]]&amp;nbsp; [[User talk:Will Beback|&lt;font color=&quot;#C0C0C0&quot;&gt;talk&lt;/font&gt;]]&amp;nbsp; &lt;/b&gt; 04:36, 5 May 2009 (UTC)

==Catholics and the Klan==
Although the article doesn't specifically mention the Ku Klux Klan, it seems relevant to mention the fact that the historical KKK did not really recognize Celtic, Gallic or Irish Roman Catholics as White, since much of the White nationalism movement has a decidedly Protestant character. In fact, the ''Christian'' element within White mationalism could well be termed Protestant/WASP nationalism, the kind of nationalism that is found within Protestant organizations such as the Orange Order in the UK. [[User:ADM|ADM]] ([[User talk:ADM|talk]]) 13:44, 5 May 2009 (UTC)

: If whites can be united on an issue, they can be easily divided over pity things like ethnicity or religion (such as Northern Ireland, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Belgium/Benelux) to produce conflict between similar people who may look alike ethnically or share a common culture for decades and centuries to come. You could include the late 19th century rivalry between English-speaking and Afrikaans-speaking South Africans in the Boer wars before the union of South Africa formed in 1910, later became a republic in 1961. + [[Special:Contributions/71.102.7.77|71.102.7.77]] ([[User talk:71.102.7.77|talk]]) 23:59, 16 January 2010 (UTC)

== is white nationalist a racist? ==

Hi. I would like to know if a person who claims to be a white nationalist is a racist person. I have a friend who claims to be a white nationalist but I am an asian and she is very nice to me. So it is hard for me to understand if WN is racist or not?  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Xyz887|Xyz887]] ([[User talk:Xyz887|talk]]  [[Special:Contributions/Xyz887|contribs]]) 06:49, 30 May 2009 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:You might try asking at the [[WP:RD|reference desk]]; this page is for talking about the article rather than the subject itself. Cheers, [[user:Skomorokh|&lt;span style=&quot;background: #222; color: #fff;&quot;&gt;&lt;font face=&quot;Goudy Old Style&quot;&gt;&amp;nbsp;Skomorokh&amp;nbsp;&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/span&gt;]] 06:51, 30 May 2009 (UTC)

::Anecdotal evidence not appropriate within the scope of Wikipedia or any educational oriented website for that matter. -- Rock8591 06:15, 20 June 2009 (UTC)  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Rock8591|Rock8591]] ([[User talk:Rock8591|talk]]  [[Special:Contributions/Rock8591|contribs]]) &lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Striking similarities w/ Metapedia ==

Is there any particular reason why this article is nearly identicle to it's Metapedian [http://brofi.st/s/47b counterpart]?  They may well be copying us, but I hope I'm not the only one who finds it worrying that our article on white nationalism practically mirrors that of the white nationalist wiki. [[User:Throwaway85|Throwaway85]] ([[User talk:Throwaway85|talk]]) 19:51, 20 January 2010 (UTC)

: They're probably copying us. This article has been in existence since 2003, while Metapedia was founded much more recently than that. [[User:Stonemason89|Stonemason89]] ([[User talk:Stonemason89|talk]]) 01:48, 10 June 2010 (UTC)

== Article is incomplete in some areas ==

This article is missing mention of some of the central tenets of White Nationalism:
* It is a militarist movement, that emphasises preparation for, and necessity of violent racial conflict
* Anti-semitism - more specific than mere racism, the theory that Jews are responsible for almost all the ills of the 'white race'
* The assumption of an intellectual and cultural superiority of white races above all others.
* The promotion of the theory of an inherent bestial nature of black people.

Many of the common criticisms of White Nationalism are also missing:
* History revisionism (e.g. White Europeans colonised the USA before other humans did via the Bering landbridge)
* Neo-nazi political philosophy
* White Nationalism belief in 'might is right', as applied to past European colonial wars and colonialism.&lt;br /&gt;

[[User:Centrepull|Centrepull]] ([[User talk:Centrepull|talk]]) 05:06, 12 October 2010 (UTC)

:Might have to do it yourself because a lot of the things on this list are just stereotypes of &quot;white supremacists&quot; and not necessarily related to white nationalism as an ideology or movement--'''[[User:Lvivske|]]''' &lt;small&gt;([[User talk:Lvivske|talk]])&lt;/small&gt; 05:33, 12 October 2010 (UTC)

Two separate lists. In stating that the first list is of overlooked tenets, I am ''exactly'' claiming that they ''are'' related to White Nationalism as a movement. The second list is of common criticisms. Common criticism are just that, whether 'stereotypes' or not. [[User:Centrepull|Centrepull]] ([[User talk:Centrepull|talk]]) 07:29, 12 October 2010 (UTC)
::Seems more like presumptions than actual tenants. Do you have sources to back up these claims? White nationalism is separate from White supremacy, and doesn't necessarily call for a 'race war'. Anti-semitism is associated but not requisite. --'''[[User:Lvivske|]]''' &lt;small&gt;([[User talk:Lvivske|talk]])&lt;/small&gt; 16:52, 12 October 2010 (UTC)

:::::::::::::::The entire &quot;Criticisms&quot; section should be removed. I am by no means a White Nationalist or sympathetic to White Nationalism, but good Lord -- that section is preposterous. There is no equivalent lopsided &quot;Criticisms&quot; section in the articles that deal with other political movements centered on race.
	</talkpage>
	<talkpage id="313054" title="Talk:White nationalism">
{{Talk header}}
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Politics|class=C|importance=mid}}
{{WikiProject Sociology|class=C|importance=low}}
{{WikiProject Discrimination|class=C|importance=mid}}
}}
{{controversial}}

==Archives==

*[[Talk:White nationalism/Archive 1]]
*[[Talk:White nationalism/Archive 2]]
*[[Talk:White nationalism/Archive 3]]

== Adolf Hitler ==

Adolf Hitler was not a White Nationalist. He was a German supremacist. Hitler in his books and speeches did not believe &quot;all white people&quot; to be equal or good. In fact if someone wants to look at the &quot;Hitler youth&quot; training manual whites are separated into distinct groups of good, bad, etc. 

White nationalism is usually based on the fact that one is &quot;white&quot; Hitler's program was based on how Aryan/German one was. That's not White Nationalism at all.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt; Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/174.138.214.157|174.138.214.157]] ([[User talk:174.138.214.157|talk]]) 04:53, 21 November 2012 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;


== Disagree with the second paragraph ==

After reading the second paragraph, I noticed that the text there describes White Supremacy, not White Nationalism. Though these views are often confused, and used interchangeably, they are, in fact, different. In addition to changing this section, I'd like to start a section highlighting the distinctions between this and other easily-confused ideologies. [[User:Thebrit95|Mr. Kent]] ([[User talk:Thebrit95|talk]]) 04:11, 27 February 2011 (UTC)

== Scope of &quot;white nationalism&quot; ==

To what extent does &quot;white nationalism&quot; entail nationalist ideologies not focused on a whole &quot;white people&quot; per se, but on specific national groups which are, to varying degrees, racially defined as white - in Europe, in Qubec, in South Africa, etc.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt; Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/173.246.24.182|173.246.24.182]] ([[User talk:173.246.24.182|talk]]) 04:30, 3 December 2011 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;


Problem with the first sentence. Why does Leonard Zeskind's opinion inserted  right in the first sentence as if it is academically and factually correct. Surely it can be placed somewhere else as being just another view.

QUOTE;  &quot;It has been argued by Leonard Zeskind that white separatism and white supremacism MAY BE considered subgroups within white nationalism &quot;]. So not only is this is a clear opinion but he's also a biased author on this matter, his leftist-position can hold no ground here you need to put someone more non-biased, an individual without an agenda.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt; Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/99.238.24.223|99.238.24.223]] ([[User talk:99.238.24.223|talk]]) 20:23, 6 February 2014 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

This article is a redirect from the &quot;White Power&quot; slogan, which was created in 1960s, in opposition to &quot;Black Power&quot;.
As such it has incongrous, ahistorical references to KKK: &quot;Examples include the lynching of black people by the Ku Klux Klan (KKK).&quot;. 
Shall we separate these? 

[[User:Zezen|Zezen]] ([[User talk:Zezen|talk]]) 14:42, 23 August 2014 (UTC)

== Move from white nationalism to &quot;aryan nationalism&quot; ==

why was the page moved without any discussion? and against common use?--'''[[User:Lvivske|]]''' &lt;small&gt;([[User talk:Lvivske|]])&lt;/small&gt; 03:14, 18 February 2012 (UTC)
:Moved back to correct title.  [[User:The Mark of the Beast|The Mark of the Beast]] ([[User talk:The Mark of the Beast|talk]]) 03:20, 18 February 2012 (UTC)

== Jewish is not the same as Zionism or Israel ==
This paragraph initally is talking about how some white natioalits support Jewish intergrationg, but then strangely brings up how some white nationalists oppose Israel. Its as if the article usses &quot;oppose Israel&quot; as meaning the same thing as &quot;oppose Jewish intergration&quot;. This is a clumsy and strange compariosn and should be changed. &quot;Some white nationalists, such as Jared Taylor, have argued that Jews can be considered &quot;white&quot;.[13] Though most white nationalists oppose Israel and Zionism, several white nationalists (such as William Daniel Johnson) have expressed support for Israel.[14]&quot;
--  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt; Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/137.154.16.31|137.154.16.31]] ([[User talk:137.154.16.31|talk]]) 23:10, 21 May 2012 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Subgroups of white nationalism? ==

When I went to the webpage for nationalism &quot;supremacy&quot; and &quot;separatism&quot; are not listed as a subgroups. Why do these subgroups only exist for white? What specifically sets whites apart from other ethnic supremacist groups. I'm removing the second line. Not scholarly article to back up this statement.  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt; Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Malv|Malv]] ([[User talk:Malv|talk]]  [[Special:Contributions/Malv|contribs]]) 23:09, 18 June 2012 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:&quot;What specifically sets whites apart from other ethnic '''supremacist groups'''&quot;, your [[Freudian slip]] is showing or is that too Jewish a term for you? [[User:Heironymous Rowe|'''&lt;span style=&quot;color:White;background:darkBlue&quot;&gt;He&lt;/span&gt;''']][[User talk:Heironymous Rowe|'''&lt;span style=&quot;color:darkBlue&quot;&gt;iro'''&lt;/span&gt;]] 05:56, 19 June 2012 (UTC)

Wikipedia:Civility

Uh there is no need to be so uncivil here. he brings out a good point. unless there is equality and its not equal when other groups on wikipedia that promotes seperatism, then of course its not equal and thus POV and must be changed.

If you want to, you can include jews like ROBERT WEISSBERG who for example is a white jewish seperatist and not supremacist, who allies himself with jared taylor, who does indeed condemns anti-semitism and includes jews in his organisation. [[Special:Contributions/79.138.3.88|79.138.3.88]] ([[User talk:79.138.3.88|talk]]) 03:10, 1 July 2012 (UTC)

::The writers of this article are claiming it is white supremacist, so under their own assumptions I am asking the question of why these groups only exist for white. The answer: it's an pseudo-scholarly definition that carries no real meaning. Are we going to label Jewish nationalism Jewish supremacist as well? Of course not. Equating white nationalism to white supremacism is nothing but slandering an ideology through association. You might as well put a picture of gallery of Hitler photos on the page. It's unfortunate that Wikipedia is run by those who have an agenda to attack white nationalism and turn it into something which it is not. It reveals the true bias of Wikipedia and it's pathetic unscholarly editors that try to masquerade as objective. Leftist garbage pretending to be something more. [[User:Malv|Malv]] ([[User talk:Malv|talk]]) 20:50, 6 August 2012 (UTC)

:::You clearly do  not understand how Wikipedia works. If we didn't have sources that discuss white supremacism, then we couldn't use the term. Wikipedia editors didn't make up the term. Scholars write about white supremacism. [[User:Dougweller|Dougweller]] ([[User talk:Dougweller|talk]]) 05:13, 7 August 2012 (UTC)
You clearly do not understand how wikipedia works. we are made to have a balanced neutral description of it. not liking sources and dismissing said scholars does not make them non-scholars. that said we are also here 
to debate whenver to put them into subgroups or not. jewish white nationalists ARE white nationalists.They are for every white countries but with whites ruling said country. like israel is. 
and yes, sources from political correct and biased sources certainly does not constitute RELIABLE SOURCES.
it also states that the sources must have some line proving that they say they are superior.
I supose the united nations saying zionism is racism and that many countries still do constitutes that jewish nationalism=jewish supremacism? 
no of course not. the vote in the general asembly against israel does not mean reliable or correct. so it certainly wouldnt constitute white nationalism either. they are seperatists like jews and arabs are. 2 states not 1 state, they strongly believe they must be seperated and live peacefully in each NATION, hence why they are NATIONALISTS. so it would be correct and equal to put into the article in this said group. if other groups has, so must this.if its not, then it means whatever sources one has on white nationalism and seperatism is indeed heavely biased and thus not RS to write about.
And yes, scholars that are white nationalists do indeed constitute reliable sources if they are verifiable and not anti-semitic. Michael levin and Jared taylor are RS unless somehow they cant be verifiable.



And no source says hitler was a white nationalists, he was a german supremacists and german nationalists, but not for all white countries. unless the russians, poles and jews that were killed in the concentration camps are somehow not white? so no he wasnt for WN. Thus should be removed.   &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt; Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/77.53.83.104|77.53.83.104]] ([[User talk:77.53.83.104|talk]]) 21:49, 1 September 2012 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;


== Steven L. Akins, BLP violations and semi-protection ==

I've semi-protected the articles because of IPs from Perth trying to add Akins name. This may have something to do with [http://www.heretical.comwww.vnnforum.com/showthread.php?t=143497&amp;page=2 this thread] at the white supremacist Vanguard forum, where Akins himself says &quot;I am not an activist figure nor do I have any sort of prominent standing in the movement.&quot; [[User:Dougweller|Dougweller]] ([[User talk:Dougweller|talk]]) 12:42, 16 July 2012 (UTC)
:It definitely is to do with the thread, the last post in that thread a little while ago says &quot;Alas, Akins, my repeated attempts to add your good self to a list of Prominent Individuals in WN on Wikipedia (using a variety of different IP addresses), over the last week, have all been shot down in flames. Apparently, you just don't rate.&quot; [[User:Dougweller|Dougweller]] ([[User talk:Dougweller|talk]]) 15:36, 16 July 2012 (UTC)

Hey, Akins has been trying to add himself (under 'Steven Akins') to Wikipedia under a pseudonym, 'Ben Abramson':
http://whitenations.com/showpost.php?p=13828&amp;postcount=14

I quote:

''Just to test this theory out, a few days ago I created a Wikipedia editor account under the name Ben Abramson (I wanted it to sound Jewish to see if they would let what I did stand). 

After registering as Ben Abramson, I then set out to create a new article on myself (Steven Akins) citing myself as an anti-Semitic White Supremacist who runs the website The Way I See It on which I espouse my anti-Semitic, racist, White Supremacist views and philosophy.

In creating the article, I carefully followed the format used in the writing of the article on Don Black, and cited my website, as well as comments other people have made about my racist views on their own websites and blogs, and kept everything factual and to the point.

Within minutes I was notified by another Wikipedia editor that my article had been tagged for &quot;speedy deletion.&quot;

I responded as Ben Abramson by saying that I felt the article should be left alone because it was about a public figure (author) who is anti-Semitic and a self-described White Supremacist that runs a website promoting racism, anti-Semitism, and White Supremacy.

Within less than an hour after I had written it, the article was deleted - gone - vanished without a trace, never to be seen or heard from again.

Why?

Because Steven Akins isn't a part of the controlled opposition - I'm the real thing, and they want to keep people who are the real thing as obscure and out of sight as possible while promoting their operatives.''  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt; Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/222.219.26.67|222.219.26.67]] ([[User talk:222.219.26.67|talk]]) 14:28, 1 September 2013 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

:Lol. It was speedy deleted as &quot;This article may meet Wikipedia's [[Wikipedia:Criteria for speedy deletion|criteria for speedy deletion]] as an article about a real person, individual animal, organization (band, club, company, etc.), web content or organized event that does not credibly indicate the importance or significance of the subject. See [[CSD A7]]. [[User:Dougweller|Dougweller]] ([[User talk:Dougweller|talk]]) 15:35, 1 September 2013 (UTC)

::Any article about you would have to meet [[Wikipedia:Notability (people)]]. Your continued attempts to promote yourself on Wikipedia don't seem very successful, do they? [[User:Dougweller|Dougweller]] ([[User talk:Dougweller|talk]]) 15:35, 1 September 2013 (UTC)

== RfC ==

{{bulb}}An RfC: [[Talk:Southern Poverty Law Center#RfC: Which descriptor, if any, can be added in front of Southern Poverty Law Center when referenced in other articles?|Which descriptor, if any, can be added in front of Southern Poverty Law Center when referenced in other articles?]] has been posted at the [[Talk:Southern Poverty Law Center#RfC: Which descriptor, if any, can be added in front of Southern Poverty Law Center when referenced in other articles?|Southern Poverty Law Center talk page]]. Your participation is welcomed. &amp;ndash; [[user: MrX|MrX]] 17:41, 22 September 2012 (UTC)

== History of White Nationalism ==

I'd like to know what the general consensus is here about the beginnings of &quot;White Nationalism&quot; and why certain groups have not been linked to this page. The groups discussed in the article seem to be newer groups which expressly call themselves &quot;White Nationalist.&quot; The KKK is not linked from this page, although it is from the KKK page to here. As far as earliest origins go, I would honestly mention the fact that the United States of America was very explicit in the Naturalization Act of 1790, saying only &quot;free white persons&quot; of &quot;good moral character&quot; could become citizens. That sounds like &quot;White Nationalism&quot; to me. That was more or less strictly adhered to until the 1868 14th Amendment. Even then, the Bhagat Thind case in 1923 determined that non-whites still could not become naturalized citizens. At any rate, the 1790 act must be the first example of being &quot;White&quot; as a crucial determinant of citizenship in world history. That has to count for something on this topic. 

Also, should we really be including German National Socialism under this topic? Certainly race played a central role in NS ideology and citizenship, but the emphasis was quite different. I'd be hesitant to include any European nationalist movements under the category &quot;White Nationalism&quot; because they are typically much more focused on their individual ethnic designations. On the other hand, Rockwell's American Nazi Party should be included since it's basically old-fashioned White Nationalism with the added inspiration from NS Germany. In general, I think it'd be worthwhile to have separate headings for the USA, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa and describe the various past and present manifestations of White Nationalism in the said countries. What say ye? [[User:ElkanahTingley|ElkanahTingley]] ([[User talk:ElkanahTingley|talk]]) 02:46, 16 November 2012 (UTC)


== Scope of &quot;White Nationalism&quot; II ==

I'm also very uncertain about some of the groups characterized on this page as &quot;white nationalist.&quot; Not all European far-right or nationalist groups with an acknowledgement of race = &quot;White Nationalism.&quot; Certainly a group that declares &quot;Keep Denmark Danish!&quot; or &quot;Russia for the Russians!&quot; shouldn't be lumped in with WN only because they are right-wing and anti-multiculturalism. Also, groups that are pro-(insert native European ethnic group), anti-multiculturalism, AND acknowledge common bonds with other Europeans...doesn't = WNism, though I see how it can get muddled. WNism, to my mind, is most easily identifiable in the post-colonial countries. Throwing together National Socialism, various European Ethno-Nationalisms, and White Nationalism seems a bit like painting with a very big brush. We might as well just have one huge page called &quot;Race-Related White/European Far-Right&quot;. Thoughts? [[User:ElkanahTingley|ElkanahTingley]] ([[User talk:ElkanahTingley|talk]]) 08:19, 17 November 2012 (UTC)

== comparing this article to Zionism? ==

I was reading up on several types of Nationalism here on Wikipedia, and I couldn't help but notice that while White Nationalism was presented extremely negatively here, the article on Zionism portrayed Jewish Nationalism as an extremely positive movement. Perhaps we could work to make this article a little less biased?  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt; Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/66.177.228.248|66.177.228.248]] ([[User talk:66.177.228.248|talk]]) 12:12, 16 April 2013 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

It appears to me to be the case that the 'Zionism' article is fairly unbiased and balanced. The second paragraph of that article mentions criticism of the concept, et cetera, and this seems to me to be an acceptable level of neutrality. Certainly, nobody is going to be indoctrinated by reading the Wikipedia article on 'Zionism'. 
Meanwhile, this article only comes off as possessing a negative tone because of the stigma associated with the terms 'anti-semitism'
'racism' and 'white supremacism'. From what I have ascertained, those who subscribe to the ideals of White Nationalism do not see any issue with these terms and do not view them negatively; certainly not to the extent, I think, that a rewrite is merited. I would certainly be happy to discuss this, though, if you really feel that there is an issue with the page. [[User:Kapitulasjon|Kapitulasjon]] ([[User talk:Kapitulasjon|talk]]) 09:29, 13 July 2013 (UTC)

==&quot;Notable individuals&quot; additions==
An ip added a list of names to the article under &quot;notable individuals&quot;. Spotchecking the list, 2 of 2 I checked had nothing in their articles about white nationalism. I [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=White_nationalism&amp;diff=580853724&amp;oldid=580852136 reverted] the addition (saying it was a BLP concern), but I was reverted by Volunteer Marek (who said that only one was alive, and ''that one'' was applicable). I can concede that it isn't a BLP concern if none of them are alive, but that doesn't address my actual concern: how are these names actually relevant to the article? It's not as if we should take no care before placing names of deceased people in such an article. I checked another name, and again found no mention of white nationalism anywhere in his article. Which of these people ''are actually'' related to the topic? [[Edmond Barton]], [[Jim Saleam]] and [[Alfred Deakin]] don't appear to be. &amp;nbsp; &amp;mdash; [[User:Mann_jess|&lt;b&gt;Jess&lt;/b&gt;]]&lt;span style=&quot;margin:0 7px;font-variant:small-caps;font-size:0.9em&quot;&gt;&amp;middot; [[Special:Contributions/Mann_jess|&amp;Delta;]][[User_talk:Mann_jess|&amp;hearts;]]&lt;/span&gt; 14:38, 9 November 2013 (UTC)

:Correction, [[Jim Saleam]] apparently is a white nationalist, although nothing was written about it in his article. I added a sentence to that effect. I still don't know how &quot;notable&quot; he is to the topic, however, considering no one even thought to include it in his article until now. Given that, I don't see why he should be included on this list... and the others seem even less appropriate. &amp;nbsp; &amp;mdash; [[User:Mann_jess|&lt;b&gt;Jess&lt;/b&gt;]]&lt;span style=&quot;margin:0 7px;font-variant:small-caps;font-size:0.9em&quot;&gt;&amp;middot; [[Special:Contributions/Mann_jess|&amp;Delta;]][[User_talk:Mann_jess|&amp;hearts;]]&lt;/span&gt; 14:47, 9 November 2013 (UTC)

::[[Pauline Hanson]] is also alive, and also has nothing in her article about white nationalism (anti-multiculturalism doesn't mean white nationalism, necessarily). I'm re-reverting per BLP. Please discuss here before reintroducing these people. &amp;nbsp; &amp;mdash; [[User:Mann_jess|&lt;b&gt;Jess&lt;/b&gt;]]&lt;span style=&quot;margin:0 7px;font-variant:small-caps;font-size:0.9em&quot;&gt;&amp;middot; [[Special:Contributions/Mann_jess|&amp;Delta;]][[User_talk:Mann_jess|&amp;hearts;]]&lt;/span&gt; 14:50, 9 November 2013 (UTC)

:::Umm, can you explain how [[Joseph Goebbels]] or [[Heinrich Himmler]] or [[George Lincoln Rockwell]] don't qualify for inclusion? Note none of these are LPs. [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=White_nationalism&amp;oldid=prev&amp;diff=580968245]. Ok, I get that this article should really be a redirect to [[White supremacism]] or whatever, the present title being essentially a weasel code word for that, but these guys qualify.&lt;small&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;border:1px solid black;padding:1px;&quot;&gt;[[User:Volunteer Marek|&lt;font style=&quot;color:blue;background:orange;font-family:sans-serif;&quot;&gt;'''&amp;nbsp;Volunteer Marek&amp;nbsp;'''&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt; 00:50, 10 November 2013 (UTC)

::::White nationalism and white supremacism are technically different things. The labels are often used interchangeably, but they aren't actually the same. It's also worth noting that this isn't a category or a list where we can enumerate every one; the section is for a few notable white nationalists - the most significant. I expect all 3 of those people might fit here, but do we have any source at all saying that they are &quot;notable white nationalists&quot;? Are they discussed in any literature focusing on white nationalism? Either would suffice, but I think we should avoid inserting names without a source. My concern was that ''none'' of the names (aside from Rockwell) added had a source, or any mention of white nationalism in their articles either... but I only reverted because of the BLP concern (and some of the names seem unlikely to be related at all). Those 3, on the other hand, are probably good candidates. If you're familiar with the topic, I wouldn't revert their addition, but I think it's generally a bad precedent to set adding content without sources, so I'd strongly prefer to see a citation first (ideally one added to their article). Thanks for commenting here. &amp;nbsp; &amp;mdash; [[User:Mann_jess|&lt;b&gt;Jess&lt;/b&gt;]]&lt;span style=&quot;margin:0 7px;font-variant:small-caps;font-size:0.9em&quot;&gt;&amp;middot; [[Special:Contributions/Mann_jess|&amp;Delta;]][[User_talk:Mann_jess|&amp;hearts;]]&lt;/span&gt; 01:12, 10 November 2013 (UTC)

=White Nationalism, Separatism, Supremacy=
These terms are used in different ways by different scholars. I suspect the best we can do here is present a variety of views.[[User:Chip.berlet|Chip.berlet]] ([[User talk:Chip.berlet|talk]]) 15:50, 26 May 2014 (UTC)

:I disagree.  The practical effect of following that route has led to the situation where Scalise was recently claimed to have spoken to a &quot;White Supremacist&quot; organization, when a look at an archive for the EURO website clearly shows that neither &quot;supremacist&quot; nor &quot;separatist&quot; goals are espoused.  (Where those news organizations got the WS label is a mystery.)  For that matter, I'm hard-pressed to even justify labelling EURO as being &quot;white nationalist&quot;:  What does that mean?  If a person is white, but he isn't a supremacist, and he isn't a separatist, what exactly is he?  He's just &quot;white&quot;, right?  Even calling him a &quot;white nationalist&quot; can be misleading: A person who does not wish to form a separate country cannot be labelled a &quot;nationalist&quot;.   No, &quot;the best we can do here&quot; is identify the various misrepresentations that are being made about these terms, cease the lies, and accurately label people and organizations to the best of our ability.  [[User:Frysay|Frysay]] ([[User talk:Frysay|talk]]) 07:47, 4 January 2015 (UTC)

== Cf. Nazi Germany and Slavs ==

In the paragraph it is stated: &lt;br&gt;
*&quot;Slavic peoples, such as Russians and Poles, were considered Untermenschen instead of Aryan.&quot;
This is certainly an error, which you should be clear if you look at main official Nazi documents. In the [[Ahnenpass]] it is stated that &quot;wherever they might live in the world&quot; Aryans were &quot;e.g. an Englishman or a Swede, a Frenchman or a Czech, a Pole or an Italian&quot;. Source: Christopher J. Wells (1 January 1990). Deutsch: Eine Sprachgeschichte bis 1945. Walter de Gruyter. p. 447. ISBN 978-3-11-091484-9. &lt;br&gt;
Cornelia Schmitz-Berning ([[Walter de Gruyter]] publishing house) quotes Nazi documents: &lt;br&gt;
!To be of Aryan heritage everybody is considered who does not have - in the perspective of the German people - alien blood. Above all Jews and gypsies are aliens, even if they live in Europe; then alien are the Asian and African races, the Australian aborigines, the Indians of the Americas; whereas an Englishman or a Swede, a Frenchman or Czech, or a Pole or Italian, if they don't have such alien blood, must be considered to be Aryan, no matter whether he is living in his homeland, or in East Asia, or in America, whether he is a citizen of the USA or a South American Free State.&quot; &lt;br&gt;
(Source: Cornelia Schmitz-Berning (2007). Vokabular des Nationalsozialismus (in German). Walter de Gruyter. p. 61. &quot;Arischer Abstammung ist demnach derjenige Mensch, der frei von einem, vom deutschen Volke aus gesehen, fremdrassigen Blutseinschlage ist. Als fremd gilt hier vor allem das Blut der auch im europischen Siedlungsraume lebenden Juden und Zigeuner, das der asiatischen und afrikanischen Rassen und der Ureinwohner Australiens und Amerikas (Indianer), whrend z.B. ein Englnder oder Schwede, ein Franzose oder Tscheche, ein Pole oder Italiener, wenn er selbst frei von solchen, auch ihm fremden Blutseinschlgen ist, als verwandt, also als arisch gelten mu, mag er nun in seiner Heimat oder in Ostasien oder in Amerika wohnen oder mag er Brger der U.S.A. oder eines sdamerikanischen Freistaates sein.&quot;)

So what do we have here? No doubt there are conflicting sources. I think for the sake of truth we should mention both conflicting sources. 
Sincerely, [[Special:Contributions/84.187.237.219|84.187.237.219]] ([[User talk:84.187.237.219|talk]]) 19:53, 3 July 2014 (UTC)
The quote you refer to is in relation to citizens of other countries not other ethnic groups. Ethnic Poles weren't considered Aryan by Nazis. Ahnenpa was used to prove German ancestry.--[[User:MyMoloboaccount|MyMoloboaccount]] ([[User talk:MyMoloboaccount|talk]]) 20:03, 3 July 2014 (UTC)

Like I wrote - you're simply wrong on this one - the Germans living in those countries were called Germans by the Nazis, they were not called Czechs, or Poles, which is absolute obvious nonsense if you read articles, documents ... whatever from that time. So this statement from the official document does speak about ethnic Czechs, Poles etc. The Nazis did not equate Germans and Aryans -- it was called Aryan certificate. And that's why in the Nuremberg laws is was written about &quot;German blood&quot; and &quot;related blood&quot; (German: &quot;artverwandtes Blut&quot;). Sincerely, [[Special:Contributions/84.187.237.219|84.187.237.219]] ([[User talk:84.187.237.219|talk]]) 20:24, 3 July 2014 (UTC)
Aryan pass was used to prove German ancestry.The sentence you mentioned doesn't speak about &quot;ethnic Poles&quot; which is quote different from a Polish citizen(of whom many pre-1939 were Germans). Ethnic Poles as it is widely known were considered by Nazis to be subhuman non-Aryans targeted for slavery and extermination.--[[User:MyMoloboaccount|MyMoloboaccount]] ([[User talk:MyMoloboaccount|talk]]) 20:27, 3 July 2014 (UTC)

You simply state &quot;widely known&quot; -- if you read primary sources from that time -- what you call &quot;ethnic Germans&quot; are by the Nazis referred to as &quot;Germans&quot; -- no matter wheter they live as a minority in Poland. &quot;Ethnic Poles&quot; are by the Nazis called &quot;Poles&quot;. It is simply obvious nonsense if you read original sources to expect to find Nazi quotations talking about &quot;ethnic Poles&quot; (&quot;ethnische Polen&quot;) or (&quot;ethnische Deutsche&quot;). When the Nazis said Poles, they meant Poles etc. &lt;br&gt;
Have you heard of the film stars [[Pola Negri]] (Polish) and [[Lda Baarov]]? They were also film stars in Nazi Germany. Now do you really think the Nazis would make &quot;Untermenschen&quot; film stars. It's simply an error. &lt;br&gt;
Sincerely, [[Special:Contributions/84.187.237.219|84.187.237.219]] ([[User talk:84.187.237.219|talk]]) 20:34, 3 July 2014 (UTC)
I am afraid you are pursuing Original Research. Do you want me to quote 15 or 20 scholarly sources stating that Poles were considered non-Aryan subhumans by Nazis? I will be happy to oblige. As to films-proves nothing, we make movies with dogs, doesn't mean we consider them human. Nazis made movies with Poles it doesn't mean they considered them human either.You aren't seriously claiming that Poles or Russians weren't considered as subhumans by Nazis are you?--[[User:MyMoloboaccount|MyMoloboaccount]] ([[User talk:MyMoloboaccount|talk]]) 20:37, 3 July 2014 (UTC)

There are several points to this: first -- it's disingenuous to only let one side of the sources be heard and simply remove the others -- and what's more -- do those sources quote primary sources? Shouldn't we for the sake of truth demand the primary source where this is supposedly written? Where is the German text?! I read about instances where a journal simply quoted a newspaper article, which itself did not name its sources and did not provide the original wording. Is this what you call scholarly search for truth. Do you even care whether this article sheds a true light?! Why on earth would you remove a primary source which even has the original German wording? I read many original sources from that time. I read primary sources by Nazis -- professors who were members of the NSDAP and wrote on these issues -- I have no doubt that the conception which is now presented here in this Wikipedia article does not represent truth. &lt;br&gt;
Answering your last question: I'm absolutley serious that's it's pure nonsense that Poles and Czechs were considered subhuman by the Nazis. Do you think Goebbels would have a &quot;subhuman&quot; lover [[Lda Baarov]]? Do you think Hitler would be excited about a &quot;subhuman&quot; film star [[Pola Negri]]? 
[[Special:Contributions/84.187.237.219|84.187.237.219]] ([[User talk:84.187.237.219|talk]]) 21:01, 3 July 2014 (UTC)
Of course, people do get excited about dogs, horses, cats, and zoophilia exists. No doubt sexual intercourse with Slav was especially exciting to Nazis considering the taboo surrounding the subject and belief they were interacting with animalistic creatures. The massive rapes committed by Wehrmacht on millions of Soviet women in WW2 perhaps can be explained by that.But like said before, you are engaging in Original research.
&quot;side of the sources be heard and simply remove the others&quot; We usually don't consider revisionist and Nazis to be reliable sources.
&quot;sheds a true light?! &quot; Wikipedia isn't about  showing &quot;true light&quot;, I suggest you read on its rules. 
--[[User:MyMoloboaccount|MyMoloboaccount]] ([[User talk:MyMoloboaccount|talk]]) 21:06, 3 July 2014 (UTC)

It's disingenuous to say that you don't quote Nazis -- the very parts you added included quotations. &lt;br&gt;
Again -- if what this article now maintains was true -- then there should be primary sources -- where one can read the German original words, which were supposedly said/written?! -- if it was true, those sources could be mentioned. And they should be mentioned. What I DO KNOW ARE primary sources that say something else, contradicting information. And to my astonishment -- they are simply removed. You rather remove an original source than tolerate information you deem &quot;revisionist&quot;. (Would you allow Wikisource to publish original documents if they contradicted your secondary sources?!) For me this is proof that you are not mainly interested to present here a true picture, which is actually sad. So I'll leave it here. [[Special:Contributions/84.187.237.219|84.187.237.219]] ([[User talk:84.187.237.219|talk]]) 21:20, 3 July 2014 (UTC)

== Why is &quot;The rise of the Internet provided an expansion of audiences for white nationalism.[3]&quot; significant? ==

The first paragraph states &quot;The rise of the Internet provided an expansion of audiences for white nationalism.&quot;  Sure it did, but then again the Internet provided an expansion of audiences for tens or even hundreds of thousands of other subjects.  Isn't this so obvious as to be too obvious?  I will delete. It does not add to the article in any signficant way. [[User:Frysay|Frysay]] ([[User talk:Frysay|talk]]) 05:41, 4 January 2015 (UTC)
:This isn't an article about &quot;tens or even hundreds of thousands of other subjects.&quot; That said, as the lede is meant to summarize the article, and since there is no actual content pertaining to the online presence of &lt;s&gt;white supremacists&lt;/s&gt; white nationalists, I reluctantly agree that it can be removed. [[User:Evanh2008|Evan]]&amp;nbsp;&lt;sup&gt;([[User talk:Evanh2008|talk]]&amp;#124;[[Special:Contributions/Evanh2008|contribs]])&lt;/sup&gt; 05:44, 4 January 2015 (UTC)
::Why did you write in, and then line-out, the words &quot;white supremacists&quot; when that wasn't in any way involved with my edit?  [[User:Frysay|Frysay]] ([[User talk:Frysay|talk]]) 05:52, 4 January 2015 (UTC)
:::Because &quot;white nationalist&quot; is a damage-control euphemism. Nothing to do with you. [[User:Evanh2008|Evan]]&amp;nbsp;&lt;sup&gt;([[User talk:Evanh2008|talk]]&amp;#124;[[Special:Contributions/Evanh2008|contribs]])&lt;/sup&gt; 15:39, 8 January 2015 (UTC)
::::It's hard to understand that reasoning.  A look at the WP article for &quot;black nationalism&quot; shows that it contains, in the lede, &quot;There are different indigenous nationalist philosophies but the principles of all Black nationalist ideologies are unity and self-determinationthat is, separation, or independence, from European society.&quot;  In contrast, the article &quot;white nationalism&quot; contains no equivalent phrasing.  The implication is that a black (or a black organization) cannot be called a &quot;black nationalist&quot; unless he advocates separation or independence from other races, but in stark contrast whites do not have to advocate any such separation or independence from other races in order to be labelled &quot;white nationalist&quot;. (Indeed, it is almost as if, to some people, it is impossible for a person to be &quot;white nationalist&quot; without also being called &quot;white supremacist&quot;.  Is that true, also, for &quot;black nationalists&quot;?  Apparently not.)
::::The problem, in [[WP:European-American Unity and Rights Organization]], is that for about twelve years (2002-December 27, 2014) virtually no media entity referred to EURO as being &quot;white supremacist&quot;, and WP referred to it only as being &quot;White Nationalist&quot;.  At some point days before Dec 27, 2014, a liberal noticed a long-ignored fact:  Stephen Scalise had attended a meeting, originally thought to have been a meeting of EURO, although days it was later understood to be a meeting of a different organization in the same Hotel, a few hours before.  Smelling political blood, an organization (&quot;Occupy Democrats&quot;) sent out a press release, announcing that Scalise attended a &quot;white supremacist organization&quot; meeting. After reading dozens of such media articles, I saw that none of them actually justified or explained by EURO constituted a &quot;white supremacist&quot; organization. (http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/article/2015/jan/06/what-we-know-about-steve-scalise-attending-white-p/)  In that context, the term &quot;white supremacist&quot; seems to have been used primarily as an epithet, and for that having a consistent definition wasn't considered necessary.
::::Apparently this press release prominently contained the words &quot;white supremacist&quot;, so over the next week or so hundreds of media organizations following that lead began to declare EURO a &quot;white supremacist&quot; organization, when they had apparently never so-labelled EURO before. Indeed, EURO was only quite rarely mentioned, let alone labelled.  Some WP editors, on [[WP:European-American Unity and Rights Organization]] have actually had the temerity to claim that these hundreds of references to &quot;white supremacist&quot; EURO are evidence of &quot;consensus&quot;.  Myself, I consider that to be utterly foolish:  These organizations are displaying just about as much independent thought as a hundred orchestra-musicians are showing by following the direction of their orchestra-conductor.  
::::I suspect that the source for this discrimination (&quot;white nationalist&quot; vs. &quot;black nationalist&quot;) is PC, or &quot;political correctness&quot;, a characteristic in which Wikipedia abounds.  A good illustration of the effect of this is the [[WP:EURO]] article, in which people are trying to label the EURO organization as being &quot;white nationalist&quot; (or even &quot;white supremacist&quot;), despite the fact that the list of stated positions in that article in no way calls for &quot;separation&quot; or &quot;independence&quot;.  I think the issue is whether WP should continue to be PC (aka WP:BHLPOV; &quot;Bleeding-Heart-Liberal Point-Of-View&quot;), or whether it should actually follow the [[WP:NPOV]] policy. As painful, no doubt, as this change will be some of those affected.  A look at this Talk page shows that the issue has been divisive for years.
::::To fix this problem, I believe it is necessary to change the as-stated definition of &quot;white nationalism&quot; to be consistent with that of &quot;black nationalism&quot;. This will not only fix the problems that have been stated to exist for years here, but will also make the labelling of specific organizations such as EURO non-discriminatory and consistent. A person or organization should only be labelled &quot;white nationalist&quot; if it would be properly labelled &quot;black nationalist&quot; if the skins of those involved were of a different color. Does anybody object to this?  [[User:Frysay|Frysay]] ([[User talk:Frysay|talk]]) 07:48, 13 January 2015 (UTC)
:::::Again, [[WP:NOR|no original research]]. What is stated in another article has no bearing on this article. All content must be [[WP:V|verifiable]] in [[WP:RS|reliable sources]].- [[user: MrX|Mr]][[user talk:MrX|X]] 12:42, 13 January 2015 (UTC)

===Capitalization of White Nationalist===
A White Nationalist is a person who adheres to ideas of White Nationalism, not just someone who is both a nationalist and white. White people is also capitalized when used as an ethnic label and not just a color descriptor.[[User talk:Maunus|User:Maunus aunussnunw]] 21:03, 11 February 2015 (UTC)

== Nazism &amp; white nationalism ==

Why are there a part about nazism in this article? Nazism were the ideology of the nazi party in germany. They belived the world were divided into higher and lower races, and the so called aryan race were the highest, with other words germans. They belived the russians and other slavs were udnermench. They had conspiracy theories about the jews, freemasons, johovas witnesses and so on. The jewish people were espacially hated because they belived their entire race where buisilly engaged in destroying the aryan race. 

With other words, this isn't white nationalism. Slavs are white, freemasons are usually white, johovas witnesses are usually white, jews are usually considered white (they look the part and have intermarried a lot) and so on. So I don't understand what white nationalism has to do with nazism. It is the same kind of nationalism as any other, hence the word; white nationalism. This seems more like the usual anti-white nonsens. 

And again. Why can't we have a normal defention of nationalism on this page? There are two versions; the modernist view and primordialism. Why can't both be used? Why only have the typical modernist view (which I find orwellian)?[[User:Olehal09|Olehal09]] ([[User talk:Olehal09|talk]]) 20:36, 2 June 2015 (UTC)
::Thanks for providing your personal views of who is an isn't white, and the reasons why you don't think Nazism and White Nationalism has anything in common. In wikipedia however we try to follow only published arguments written by experts. Experts generally see close relaiton between Nazi race ideology and different forms of &quot;white nationalism&quot; both historical and present. If you want to remove material you will have to justify it based on not representing the published sources. The material you removed was sourced so to remove it you have to either argue that the text does not adequately represent the sources cited, or that the sources cited do not adequately represent the general literature on white nationalism.[[User:Maunus|maunus]]  [[User talk:Maunus|snun]] 20:55, 2 June 2015 (UTC)
::: Then show it. Please. Because nationalism isn't the same as hating anyone else or having a belife of beeing superior to others. Read the article about [[nationalism]]. I am so tired of this orwellian nonsens on this wikipedia page, and I'll personaly use much of my spare time if necessary. I do also want to get an answer on the other aspect I have written about. [[User:Olehal09|Olehal09]] ([[User talk:Olehal09|talk]]) 21:13, 2 June 2015 (UTC)
:::::No, nationalism isn't the same thing as feeling superior or hating others, it just so happens that many nationalists (white and otherwise) do. And the literature on white nationalism reflects this, and is cited in the article. As for your other question, you can increase the odds of those aspects being included if you find sources that see that as relevant for describing white nationalism and present them here on the talk page. It is not other editors responsibility to find sources in support of your argument or provide additional sources in favor of content that is already sourced. Your time will be better spent by doing some research and providing more and better sources, than by revert warring.[[User:Maunus|maunus]]  [[User talk:Maunus|snun]] 21:56, 2 June 2015 (UTC)
:::::: But I have already done that herr danske (I belive you're danish, I'm a norwegian). I've also the page number as requestet. They just seem to have a problem having the modernist and the primordialist view representet. Again, please, show me these sources (that white nationalism = a belife whites are superior to others and needs to rule). In this wikipage, every single form of white nationalist example were not based on this. The nazis on the other hand belived in the superiority of the aryan race, which is manly the germanians. The white slavs were undermench. They belived in conspiracy theories about the jews, freemaisons, jehova's witnesses and many other people. 
::::::If you want to include nazism, come with sources which states that it is the same. Because the sources used now don't say this. [[User:Olehal09|Olehal09]] ([[User talk:Olehal09|talk]]) 22:09, 2 June 2015 (UTC)
:::::::::You are repeating yourself, and not understanding what is being argued. No-one is saying that white nationalism and nazism is the same, and the article also doesnt say that.[[User:Maunus|maunus]]  [[User talk:Maunus|snun]] 22:12, 2 June 2015 (UTC)
::::::::::But then; why are you incorporating nazism into the nationalism of whites? I've read the part about nazism, and no sources say it is white nationalism. And I know it have no place here, because the nazis were a mentally ill group basing their views on conspiracy theories and non prooven theories about race. [[User:Olehal09|Olehal09]] ([[User talk:Olehal09|talk]]) 22:17, 2 June 2015 (UTC)
::::::::::::Because they are related historically and ideologically - with the common link that National identity and State should be organized in line with a concept of racial purity favoring a certain group of white people - what varies is the methods and the definition of who is sufficiently white. The obvious example of the close relation between the different ideologies is David Duke who is both a klansman, a former neonazi, a white supremacist and a selfdescribed white nationalist.[[User:Maunus|maunus]]  [[User talk:Maunus|snun]] 22:29, 2 June 2015 (UTC)

In what way are they related historically and ideologically? By the same rationale Chinese nationalism should be frowned upan as conected to nazism. The Japanese should also, especaially when considering their treatment of the Chinese. 5 million of them were taken as slaves in WW2, many were slaughtered, and even more died because of starvation. China were the country in the world with the highest civilian casualty. They belived themselves to be superior too, like their ally in Europe. Every nation is part of the nazi club, also Rawanda and Turkey. It's just ridiculus to draw lines between nazism and white nationalism. As stated before, nazism were riddled with theories of superiority, non prooven science and conspircay theories about different people.

When it comes to &quot;racial purity&quot; (again an orwellian way to conect it with nazism). Of corse nation is based on family and ethnic background. Nation = tribe (to some degree family). 

I don't know much about David Duke. I read about him now and I can see that he was a former member of KKK and he don't describe himself as a white supremacist anymore. He is in his own words only interested in the wellbeeing of the white people in America, and says he is a white nationalist. Not beliving in violence, superiority or conquest. He is on the other hand an antisemite.

Anyway, I want you to find a source that says nazism is conected to white nationalism. Since the article don't have any. And your opinion isn't enough. [[User:Olehal09|Olehal09]] ([[User talk:Olehal09|talk]]) 22:43, 2 June 2015 (UTC)
::Just leave the cited content in place and don't insert your opinion without supporting citatins and we'll be fine.[[User:Maunus|maunus]]  [[User talk:Maunus|snun]] 22:47, 2 June 2015 (UTC)

:::No, I'm tired of this orwellian nonsens. I'm not stoping, because this is not true. Nazism is not the same as white nationalism. If so, every kind of nationalism is conected nazism.[[User:Olehal09|Olehal09]] ([[User talk:Olehal09|talk]]) 22:49, 2 June 2015 (UTC)
::::Sounds like you intend to be disruptive. [[WP:BURDEN]] is on you. [[User:EvergreenFir|'''&lt;span style=&quot;color:#8b00ff;&quot;&gt;Eve&lt;/span&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;color:#6528c2;&quot;&gt;rgr&lt;/span&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;color:#3f5184;&quot;&gt;een&lt;/span&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;color:#197947;&quot;&gt;Fir&lt;/span&gt;''']] [[User talk:EvergreenFir|(talk)]] &lt;small&gt;Please &amp;#123;&amp;#123;[[Template:re|re]]&amp;#125;&amp;#125;&lt;/small&gt; 00:30, 3 June 2015 (UTC)
::::: Yes, and as I've said. None of the sites or books refered to says nazism = white nationalism. Nazies hated whites the most actually; ref. the slavs and jews.[[User:Olehal09|Olehal09]] ([[User talk:Olehal09|talk]]) 01:18, 3 June 2015 (UTC)
::::::Jews and Slavs weren't considered white back then and still aren't in some places. That said, please do not be disruptive. [[User:EvergreenFir|'''&lt;span style=&quot;color:#8b00ff;&quot;&gt;Eve&lt;/span&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;color:#6528c2;&quot;&gt;rgr&lt;/span&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;color:#3f5184;&quot;&gt;een&lt;/span&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;color:#197947;&quot;&gt;Fir&lt;/span&gt;''']] [[User talk:EvergreenFir|(talk)]] &lt;small&gt;Please &amp;#123;&amp;#123;[[Template:re|re]]&amp;#125;&amp;#125;&lt;/small&gt; 02:18, 3 June 2015 (UTC)
::::::: So with other words; white nationalism is the same as nazism because the core of whiteness is the &quot;aryan&quot; germans. And since they murdered slavs because they were belived to be undermench, jews, freemasons, jehova's witneses and so on because of conspiracy theories. That means that white nationalists want that to. At the same time, to prefer and love your own people if you are white (white nationalism), it means that you also belive whites are superior to other races (mainly slavs and to some degree blacks), are violent (supremacist, because the nazis were), are engaged in conspiracy theories and so on. It is this kind of nonsens and orwellian dobbelthink that really make me wonder about this world. [[User:Olehal09|Olehal09]] ([[User talk:Olehal09|talk]]) 02:37, 3 June 2015 (UTC)
::::::::Barely following what you're saying. But I'm gonna stop trying since you fail to provide ''any'' sources on the topic. [[User:EvergreenFir|'''&lt;span style=&quot;color:#8b00ff;&quot;&gt;Eve&lt;/span&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;color:#6528c2;&quot;&gt;rgr&lt;/span&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;color:#3f5184;&quot;&gt;een&lt;/span&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;color:#197947;&quot;&gt;Fir&lt;/span&gt;''']] [[User talk:EvergreenFir|(talk)]] &lt;small&gt;Please &amp;#123;&amp;#123;[[Template:re|re]]&amp;#125;&amp;#125;&lt;/small&gt; 02:43, 3 June 2015 (UTC)
As stated before; read the sources on nazism (under germany on this page). None of these sources say that white nationalism is the same as nazism. By the words: nationalism and the definition that has been made on the other wiki page, we know that this is to feel that you belong to a people or nation and that you love that nation. Either real or not. And therefore I don't understand why you have nazism on this page. When the sources aren't valid, I don't need to give you sources. Noone needs to prove nazism don't equal white nationalism. You have to proove the contrary with sources, and no there are none at present. [[User:Olehal09|Olehal09]] ([[User talk:Olehal09|talk]]) 02:52, 3 June 2015 (UTC)

:As stated before, nobody says they are the same. It is true that nationalism in general is (at least in theory) not the same as supremacism, chauvinism, [[ethnic nationalism]], or ethnocentrism, it's just that supremacists use &quot;nationalism&quot; as a euphemism (and nationalists tend towards some kind of supremacist ideology in practice, rarely being satisfied with their ostensible goals), just like &quot;patriot&quot; is a typical euphemism. White nationalism in particular, as a race-based &quot;pan-movement&quot; (striving to unite the whole &quot;white race&quot;), is a completely different beast from &quot;normal&quot; nationalism. But even &quot;normal&quot; nationalism is inherently problematic due to its divisiveness and (frequently) intolerance of multi-culturalism. --[[User:Florian Blaschke|Florian Blaschke]] ([[User talk:Florian Blaschke|talk]]) 15:11, 5 June 2015 (UTC)
:: Thereby, should nazism be represented in this article. Since it weren't white nationalism at all. And anyway, why is it wrong that a movement isn't pro multiculturalism? [[User:Olehal09|Olehal09]] ([[User talk:Olehal09|talk]]) 23:27, 8 June 2015 (UTC)
:::Nazism is the most extreme form of white nationalism. It is not the same as an ethnocentric form of white nationalism, but Nazism is seen by most scholars as a bloodline from of white nationalism based on the myth of an &quot;Aryan race.&quot;[[User:Chip.berlet|Chip.berlet]] ([[User talk:Chip.berlet|talk]]) 17:15, 21 July 2015 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>