<article id="20431614" title=User talk:99.164.39.82>
	<talkpage id="20431614" title="User talk:99.164.39.82">


== November 2008 ==
Welcome to Wikipedia. Although everyone is welcome to contribute constructively to the encyclopedia, your addition of one or more external links to the page [[:Gabriel Aubry]] has been reverted. Your edit [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?diff=254460638&amp;oldid=252166306 here] was reverted by an automated bot that attempts to remove [[WP:NOT#REPOSITORY|unwanted links]] and [[WP:SPAM|spam]] from Wikipedia.  The external link you added or changed is on my list of links to remove and probably shouldn't be included in Wikipedia.	 The external links I reverted were matching the following [[regex|regex rule(s)]]: rule: '[a-z][0-9]+\.photobucket\.com\/albums\/.*\.[jpg|jpeg|gif|png|svg]' (link(s): http://i468.photobucket.com/albums/rr45/Kyle12345343/gab.jpg) . If the external link you inserted or changed was to a [[Wikipedia:Media|media]] file (e.g. an [[Wikipedia:Images|image]] or a [[Wikipedia:Media help|sound or video]] file) on an external server, then note that linking to such files may be subject to Wikipedia's [[WP:COPYRIGHT|copyright policy]] and therefore probably should not be linked to.  Please consider using our [[Wikipedia:Upload|upload]] facility to upload a suitable media file.

If you were trying to insert an [[Wikipedia:External links|external link]] that does comply with our [[Wikipedia:List of policies|policies]] and [[Wikipedia:List of guidelines|guidelines]], then please accept my creator's apologies and feel free to undo the bot's revert.  Please read Wikipedia's [[WP:EL|external links guideline]] for more information, and consult my [[User:XLinkBot/Reversion reasons|list of frequently-reverted sites]]. For more information about me, see [[User:XLinkBot/FAQ|my FAQ page]]. Thanks! --[[User:XLinkBot|XLinkBot]] ([[User talk:XLinkBot|talk]]) 18:30, 27 November 2008 (UTC)

&lt;small&gt;If this is a shared [[IP address]], and you didn't make the edit, please ignore this notice.&lt;/small&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>