<article id="2006396" title=Talk:László Sólyom>
	<talkpage id="2006396" title="Talk:László Sólyom">
{{WikiProject Biography|living=yes|class=Start|politician-work-group=yes|listas=Solyom}}
{{WikiProject Hungary|class=|importance=}}


==Untitled==
he's going to be president just from august officially...
:yepp, corrected everywhere I've seen the wrong info --[[User:Sicboy|Sicboy]] 23:11, 2005 Jun 7 (UTC)

== His name ==

The article begins with ''László Sólyom (pronounced [''&amp;#643;o&amp;#720;jom la&amp;#720;slo&amp;#720;''])''. I don't read Hungarian, but I'd be quite impressed if László really was pronounced [&amp;#643;o&amp;#720;jom] (Shaw-yom). IIRC, Hungarian is one of the languages that go surname-givenname, rather than givenname-surname as English usually does. So which is which? Also, when Anglicising Hungarian names, is there a standard order? If so, both listings should be in that order. (They should always be in the same order anyway...) [[User:Cassowary|Felix the Cassowary]] 00:11, 8 Jun 2005 (UTC)

:Okay, so it is ''really'' pronounced that way. See [[Hungarian language]] for information about Hungarian ortography and much more. The standard Anglicising method of Hungarian names is to change the order, so he is calles ''Sólyom László'' in Hungarian, but we use English order when using these names in other languages. So ''Sólyom'' is surname, and ''László'' is christian name. --[[User:Sicboy|Sicboy]] 00:23, 2005 Jun 8 (UTC)
:Oww I see what you mean, the order in pronunciation is wrong, I'll change it immediately, sorry --[[User:Sicboy|Sicboy]] 00:23, 2005 Jun 8 (UTC)

== POV? ==

Is &quot;stuttering letters of the constititution&quot; a quote?  If it is, it needs to be so designated.  If not, it is a hopelessly POV expression unworthy of inclusion in an encyclopedia.  Not everyone sees the written letters of a consititution as necessarily being hopelessly &quot;stuttering&quot;, many think that it should be attempted to take them fairly literaly and to go with them to the maximum extent possible and practicable rather than to grasp for a hopelessly subjective &quot;spirit&quot; which may be alledged to permeate them.  [[User:Rlquall|Rlquall]] 01:16, 8 Jun 2005 (UTC)
:Agree, edited. --[[User:Sicboy|Sicboy]] 01:49, 2005 Jun 8 (UTC)

In fact, &quot;even over the stuttering letters of the constitution&quot; ''is'' a quote from a Hungarian article by Gábor Halmai (a doctor of political and legal science, professor of [[ELTE]], editor-in-chief of the legal periodical ''Fundamentum'', director of Human Rights Information and Documentation Center, and chairman of Soros Foundation Committee), which article I found and used (among other sources):
:&quot;(...) Ennek az útnak &amp;#8211; amelynek neve talán nem a legszerencsésebb elnevezéssel &amp;#8222;láthatatlan alkotmány&amp;#8221; lett &amp;#8211; legfontosabb épít&amp;#337;köve az a jó értelemben vett alapjogi aktivizmus, ami akár az alkotmány dadogó bet&amp;#369;ivel szemben is az egyenl&amp;#337; emberi méltóság elvének els&amp;#337;dlegességét hirdeti. Ezt jelezte els&amp;#337;ként a halálbüntetés eltörlése, majd az információs jogok, a vélemény- és a lelkiismereti szabadság, majd az elmúlt évben a homoszexuálisok élettársi kapcsolatának világszerte úttör&amp;#337;nek mondható alkotmányos védelme. Ezek a döntések bel- és külföldön komoly elismerést szereztek a magyar Alkotmánybíróságnak. (...)&quot; [http://www.otkenyer.hu/halmai.php His article in the periodical ''Világosság'']
[[User:Adam78|Adam78]] 09:56, 8 Jun 2005 (UTC)

::Well I think we can omit that word here in Wikipedia, maybe an encyclopedia doesn't need the (either good or bad) style of Mr. Halmai :) --[[User:Sicboy|Sicboy]] 15:05, 2005 Jun 8 (UTC)

==Circumstances of his election still relevant in article head?==
I think the article head suffers from recentism. Something about Sólyom's current political stance could fill the place in better than the part about Szili, esp. regarding that the story of his election (albeit quite interesting) does already have a fairly long passage. [[User:84.1.190.103|84.1.190.103]] 21:36, 1 August 2007 (UTC)

==Article==
I think that this article should be revised and then protected for a while. Because the  Hungary-Slovakia conflict could bee this article used for the propaganda of both sides.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/78.99.5.160|78.99.5.160]] ([[User talk:78.99.5.160|talk]]) 10:55, 26 August 2009 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>