<article id="30489472" title=Talk:List of computer-aided design editors/Archive 1>
	<talkpage id="30489472" title="Talk:List of computer-aided design editors/Archive 1">
{{talkarchive}}
== Organising CAD Comparisons ==
I (--[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 23:20, 10 December 2008 (UTC)) got this direct message which I'll put here to start a discussion:
You changed the article Comparison of CAD software, redirecting it to Comparison of CAD editors for AEC and creating Comparison of CAD editors for CAM. I see threemajor problemes to this move:

first, under the Comparison of CAD editors for AEC article are listed mainly software which are not AEC.
second, the Comparison of CAD editors for CAM article is actually a list of ECAD sofwtares.
last, the Comparison of CAD software is now empty.

Could you please explain your motives and the scope at which the evolution will be complete. I would agree that the different types of CAD software would have to be segragated by type, each major type having a specific article, but a central CAD article must survive, and software must not be listen under incorrect titles. --Dwarfpower (talk) 12:54, 4 December 2008 (UTC)

:I don't know what else to do. When I first started the comparison I was because there is a real need for a vendor neutral comparison of CAD products for AEC. Rather foolishly I didn't realise there would be so much extra stuff added to a less specific comparison. My attempt to improve this is just to be more specific and create some alternatives for other types of CAD software. I don't agree that there should be a central CAD comparison, that would just duplicate and add effort. But that was just my original thinking, and it's not my article, just something I started. I'm glad to see it's found some interest. --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 23:20, 10 December 2008 (UTC)

== External links ==
* [http://appdb.winehq.org/appbrowse.php?catId=59 CAD/CAE with Wine] - The Wine Application Database has entries recording efforts to run various Windows based CAD packages on Linux with Wine support.
* For a large list of applications, see [http://www.tech-edv.co.at/lunix/CADlinks.html Linux CAD Links] (''www.tech-edv.co.at'')
* '''Alternativas libres''' has a list of FLOSS alternatives to AutoCAD on their [http://alts.homelinux.net/search.php?type=priv&amp;q=autocad AutoCAD Alternatives] page (Spanish). Includes screenshots, links and ratings.

== Peer Review ==
How close are we to being ready for a [[Wikipedia:Requests for comment]]? Now I'd say 70%. --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 12:41, 9 July 2008 (UTC)
How close are we to being ready for a [[Wikipedia:Peer_review]]?

===Langugage codes===
I propose that for space-saving measures, there should be two-letter [[ISO-639-1]] [[language code]]s instead of three-letter language codes in general, with three-letter language codes where there is no two-letter alternative or for disambiguation.

Such that a large number of languages would not extend the table further downwards, even if it's just marginal:
{| class=&quot;wikitable sortable&quot; style=&quot;text-align:center; font-size:'85%'; width:auto; table-layout:fixed&quot;
|-
! &lt;!-- Application --&gt; [[QCad]] Community Edition by [[RibbonSoft]]
| &lt;!-- Latest version/release + date --&gt;2005-07-20&lt;ref name=&quot;Qcad changelog&quot;&gt;{{cite web |url=http://www.ribbonsoft.com/qcad_doc_changelog.html |title= QCad Changelog |accessdate=2008-07-14 |author=Ribbonsoft |date= |work= |publisher= }}&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;br/&gt;Release 2.0.5.0
| &lt;!-- field --&gt;2D
| &lt;!-- Posix systems? --&gt; {{yes|[[FreeBSD]], [[Linux]], [[Mac OS X]], [[Solaris (operating system)|Solaris]], [[Unix]]}}&lt;ref name=&quot;Qcad downloads&quot;&gt;[http://www.ribbonsoft.com/qcad_downloads.html Download list on QCad Downloads page]&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref&gt;[http://www.ribbonsoft.com/qcad_doc_faq.html#35 QCad FAQ page]&lt;/ref&gt;
| &lt;!-- Windows? --&gt;{{yes}}
| &lt;!-- Others? --&gt;{{unk}}
| &lt;!-- Open source? --&gt; {{yes|[[GNU General Public License|GNU GPL]]}}&lt;ref name=&quot;Qcad downloads&quot;/&gt;
| &lt;!-- Language(s) --&gt;[[Danish language|da]], [[German language|de]], [[Dutch language|nl]], [[Estonian language|et]], [[Greek language|el]], [[Czech language|cs]]/[[Czech language|cze]], [[English language|en]], [[French language|fr]], [[Hungarian language|hu]], [[Italian language|it]], [[Norwegian language|no]],&lt;ref&gt;Specify if Norsk or Nynorsk&lt;/ref&gt; [[Polish language|pl]], [[Punjabi language|pan]], [[Russian language|rus]], [[Slovak language|slk]], [[Spanish language|spa]],  [[Turkish language|tur]] etc
&lt;ref name=&quot;Qcad features&quot;&gt;{{cite web|url= http://www.ribbonsoft.com/qcad_features.html |title= QCad Features |accessdate= 2008-07-11 |date= |work= |publisher= Ribbonsoft }}&lt;/ref&gt;
|}
-[[User:Mardus|Mardus]] ([[User talk:Mardus|talk]]) 14:27, 27 July 2009 (UTC)

:I agree, and that's how it was at one time, but someone or some script disagrees with me. --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]])
::Fixed. [[Special:Contributions/155.33.172.164|155.33.172.164]] ([[User talk:155.33.172.164|talk]]) 19:46, 11 January 2011 (UTC)

= Rollback explanation =
reminder: Are elligible to be present in this list '''software application for creating technical drawings'''. 

Artisitc modelling software are not to be listed here. FEM software and packages are n,ot to be listed here either, and neither do EDA. This is simply not the place. CAD as used in this list has the very restricted meaning remindeed
Art of illusion above.
--[[User:Dwarfpower|Dwarfpower]] ([[User talk:Dwarfpower|talk]]) 12:28, 27 September 2008 (UTC)

Most entry added after  ''''''12:10, 25 September 2008''''' not elligible to this page, ( not CAD tools in the sense of this page ) or are il lformated ( broekn links, links to pages that are not the software intended. reformat, verify links and elligibility. --[[User:Dwarfpower|Dwarfpower]] ([[User talk:Dwarfpower|talk]]) 12:37, 27 September 2008 (UTC)

* Lot of application (Viewlogic, TinyCAD, OrCAD, Mentor Graphics, KiCad, Eagle) present in the list before my add are EDA software and not mechanical CAD software. Probably I should conclude that the page was not well manteined, or you are against opensource software. But I'm started to prepare a complete list of mechanical CAD programs, electronic CAD programs, and artistic CAD programs, with the aim to create 3 wikipedia pages. To mee seems that 90% of the functionality of the three types are in common, and all respect and completely fall in the definition of &quot;Computer Aided Design&quot;. I spent a lot of time searching for lists, sorting lists, adding to the old lists, picking from discussion lists, hoping other users complete my work, filling the missing link, correct the wrong link and add other contribute. Surely not a simple two seconds destructive revert. Next time, first of all try to use the discussion instead.--[[User:Efa2|Efa2]] ([[User talk:Efa2|talk]]) 15:44, 28 September 2008 (UTC)

: as I stated here and in your discussion page, I am willing to cooperate in creating the appropriate list to have CAD, EDA artistic cad lists, or to make this list evolve to include all, but in that case the type of software would have to be mentionned in the array. I am not against open source at all, i think I mentionned that also in your discussion page. You neaarly doubled the list with 80% of the software either not in there place, or with wrong links. as I stated I kept the historic of the modifications so that your editions are not lost, but only not present in current version.
: As for your comment that eda, cad  and artistic 3D design are 80% the same I very strongly disagree. 
: My first intention was to correct your edits and add an entry in the discussion but as I stated, as most was either out of scope or ill formed, I chaned my policy. that know this is rude, and that's why i also commented in your discussion page . sorry if i have hurt you . --[[User:Dwarfpower|Dwarfpower]] ([[User talk:Dwarfpower|talk]]) 18:29, 28 September 2008 (UTC)

== Time for a cleanup ==
I've linked to the non existent comparisons: [[Comparison of CAD editors for CAM]] and [[Comparison of CAD editors for CAE]]. Hope fully we can use them to move some software away which is not AEC related. I'm sorry I didn't make the original title more specific to start with. --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 22:30, 3 December 2008 (UTC)

= Archived discussion =
Put old discussion down here so we can see the new stuff. --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 22:30, 3 December 2008 (UTC)

= Candidates for removal =
I think we should remove Advanced Concrete and Advanced Steel. From my quick reading they are both extensions to AutoCAD, so they are not actually CAD packages on their own. --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 21:08, 11 December 2008 (UTC)
:done --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 23:45, 27 December 2008 (UTC)

Hi, here is a list of clearly non-AEC software (they are rather mechanical or engineering oriented) I would recommend for removal :
- BRL-CAD
- CATIA
- Digital Project (based on CATIA)
- Both FreeCAD
- Autodesk Inventor
- NX
- Pro/Engineer
- Shark FX
- Solid Edge
- Solidworks
- Varicad
- ViaCAD

Generally speaking it is two different worlds. One easy way to make the difference is to look at the file formats : software looking for STEP, IGES, CATIA, Solidworks or ProE compatibility are not AEC software.

In the remaining list we should further think to make the difference between BIM applications (AllPlan, ArchiCAD, Revit) using intelligent objects and focused on AEC and CAD software drawing lines, circles... and 3D shapes but not specific for AEC  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:LogicielCAO|LogicielCAO]] ([[User talk:LogicielCAO|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/LogicielCAO|contribs]]) 09:56, 26 November 2009 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;


== Content to add ==
I've taken the table below from the [[.dwg|DWG]] page because it is silly duplication. This content needs to be included in this comparison instead. --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 09:24, 18 August 2008 (UTC)

{| class=&quot;wikitable sortable&quot; style=&quot;text-align: center; font-size: 85%; width: auto; table-layout: fixed;&quot;
|-
! style=&quot;width: 12em&quot; |
! Technology
! OS
! Windows?
! Linux/Posix
! Other OS?
|-
! {{rh}} | [[ArchiCAD]]
| [[DWGdirect]]
| (see to the right)
| {{yes}}
| {{yes}} (Mac OS X)
| {{dunno}}
|-
! {{rh}} | [[AutoDesk]] software group
| [[RealDWG]]
| (see to the right)
| {{yes}}
| {{no}}
| {{no}}
|-
! {{rh}} | [[AutoDWG DWG Image Converter]]
| [[Open Design Alliance]]
| [[Microsoft Windows|Windows]], [[Wine (software)|Wine]]
|-
! {{rh}} | [[AXCAD]] 
| [[DWGdirect]]
|  Windows
|-
! {{rh}} | [[Caddie (CAD System)]]
| [[DWGDirect]]
| (see to the right)
| {{yes}}
| {{dunno}}
| {{dunno}}
|-
! {{rh}} | [http://www.cadmatic.com/ Cadmatic]
| Technology?
| OS
|-
! {{rh}} | [[Cadwork]]
| [[DWGdirect]]
| (see to the right)
| {{yes}}
| {{dunno}}
| {{dunno}}
|-
! {{rh}} | [[Corel Designer]]
| [[DWGdirect]]
| OS?
|-
! {{rh}} | [[DataCAD]]
| [[DWGdirect]]
| (see to the right)
| {{yes}}
| {{dunno}}
| {{dunno}}
|-
! {{rh}} | [[IntelliCAD]] based software
| [[DWGdirect]]
| (see to the right)
| {{yes}}
| {{yes}} (Linux)
| {{dunno}}
|-
! {{rh}} | [[IntelliCAD]]
| [[DWGdirect]]
| (see to the right)
| {{yes}}
| {{yes}} ([[Bricscad]] and [[VariCAD]])
| {{dunno}}
|-
! {{rh}} | [[MicroStation]]
| [[DWGdirect]]
| (see to the right)
| {{yes}}
| {{dunno}}
| {{dunno}}
|-
! {{rh}} | PowerCAD
| [[DWGdirect]]
| (see to the right)
| {{dunno}}
| {{dunno}}
| {{dunno}}
|-
! {{rh}} | [[Pro/Engineer]]
| [[??]]
| Linux, Windows, Solaris, HP UX
|-
! {{rh}} | [[SolidWorks]]
| [[DWGdirect]]
| (see to the right)
| {{yes}}
| {{dunno}}
| {{dunno}}
|-
! {{rh}} | [[Tekla Structures]]
| [[DWGdirect]]
| (see to the right)
| {{yes}}
| {{dunno}}
| {{dunno}}
|-
! {{rh}} | [[TurboCAD]]
| [[DWGdirect]]
| Mac OS X, Windows
|-
! {{rh}} | [[VariCAD]]
| [[DWGdirect]]
| Linux, Windows
|-
! {{rh}} | [[VA - Virtual Architecture]]
| [[RealDWG]]
| (see to the right)
| {{dunno}}
| {{dunno}}
| {{dunno}}
|-
! {{rh}} | [[VectorWorks]]
| [[DWGdirect]]
| (see to the right)
| {{yes}}
| {{yes}} (Mac OS X)
| {{dunno}}
|-
! {{rh}} | [[ViaCAD - Punch! Software]]
| [[DWGdirect]]
| (see to the right)
| {{dunno}}
| {{dunno}}
| {{dunno}}
|-
|}
done--[[User:Efa2|Efa2]] ([[User talk:Efa2|talk]]) 23:02, 25 September 2008 (UTC)

What do you think about adding [http://www.octree.de/ OCTREE], [http://www.envisioneerexpress.com/ Envisioneer], [http://www.ikea.com/ms/en_GB/rooms_ideas/splashplanners.html IKEA Planner Tools] and [http://www.boconcept.com/Design_your_home.aspx?ID=71955 Furnish]? 
Could somebody do it, please? I was not very efficient while adding Sweet Home 3D.-- [[User:Thom83|Thom83]] ([[User talk:Thom83|talk]]) 05:20, 29 August 2010 (UTC)

== Editors ==
* [[A9CAD]] on Wine: http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=application&amp;iId=6752
* [[ACIS]] more a technology? --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 13:16, 9 July 2008 (UTC)
* [[Alibre_Design]] --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 13:16, 9 July 2008 (UTC)
* [[ArchiCAD]] [[http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=application&amp;iId=3351 ArchiCAD on Wine]] --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 20:15, 9 July 2008 (UTC)
* [[Cadmatic]] -- [[User:Jimmy Bergmark|Jimmy Bergmark]] ([[User talk:Jimmy Bergmark|talk]]) 20:59, 19 December 2008 (UTC)
* [[CATIA]] or is this CAE? --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 13:16, 9 July 2008 (UTC)
* [[Computervision]] (historical) --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 13:16, 9 July 2008 (UTC)
* [[GenerativeComponents]] --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 13:16, 9 July 2008 (UTC)
* [[K-3D]] '''[http://www.k-3d.org k-3D]''' - &quot;K-3D is free-as-in-freedom 3D modeling and animation software. It features a plugin-oriented procedural engine for all of its content, making K-3D a very versatile and powerful package.K-3D excels at polygonal modeling, and includes basic tools for NURBS, patches, curves and animation.&quot;
* [[LinuxCAD]] '''[http://www.linuxcad.com/ LinuxCAD]''' - &quot;Simple, easy to use drafting/CAD program for Microsoft Windows XP/Vista and Linux&quot;
* [[List_of_CAD_companies]] needs cleaning up, should we link to it? --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 13:16, 9 July 2008 (UTC)
* [[MEDUSA4]] [http://www.cad-schroer.com/index.php?land=com&amp;ziel=Products-MEDUSA-M4Personal&amp;scr=1.3 MEDUSA4] looks interesting --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 23:28, 14 July 2008 (UTC)
* [[MicroStation]] --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 13:16, 9 July 2008 (UTC)
* [[NX_-_a_Siemens_PLM_Software_solution]] --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 13:16, 9 July 2008 (UTC)
* [[PowerShape]] [[http://www.powershape.com official site]]
* [[Plant Design Management System]] (PDMS) -- can definitely be used also for AEC projects [[User:Jimmy Bergmark|Jimmy Bergmark]] ([[User talk:Jimmy Bergmark|talk]]) 19:26, 17 December 2008 (UTC)
* [[PythonCAD]] &lt;small&gt;\u2014Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]] \u2022 [[Special:Contributions/DuLithgow|contribs]]) 00:01, 11 July 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;
* [[Rhinoceros_3D]]  &lt;small&gt;\u2014Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/62.23.181.122|62.23.181.122]] ([[User talk:62.23.181.122|talk]]) 13:06, 2 September 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
* [[Sketchpad]] (historical) --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 13:16, 9 July 2008 (UTC)
* [[SketchUp]] --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 13:16, 9 July 2008 (UTC)
* [[Solid_Edge]] --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 13:16, 9 July 2008 (UTC)
* [[SolidWorks]] [[http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=application&amp;iId=318 SolidWorks on Wine]] --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 20:15, 9 July 2008 (UTC)
* [[T-FLEX_CAD]] --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 13:16, 9 July 2008 (UTC)
* [[Tekla Structures]] -- Should definitely be included [[User:Jimmy Bergmark|Jimmy Bergmark]] ([[User talk:Jimmy Bergmark|talk]]) 20:38, 19 December 2008 (UTC)
* [[TopSolid]] --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 13:16, 9 July 2008 (UTC)
* [[VectorWorks]] [[http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=application&amp;iId=488 VectorWorks on Wine]] --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 20:17, 9 July 2008 (UTC)
done--[[User:Efa2|Efa2]] ([[User talk:Efa2|talk]]) 22:57, 25 September 2008 (UTC)
Need to add Carson Civil, Autocad Civil 3d[[Special:Contributions/156.98.14.252|156.98.14.252]] ([[User talk:156.98.14.252|talk]]) 18:52, 27 January 2009 (UTC)

== List ==
Add this other CAD software from [http://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elenco_di_programmi_open_source#CAx]
*[[Alliance]] [http://www-asim.lip6.fr/recherche/alliance/ (sito)] &amp;mdash; set di tools e librerie CAD per [[GNU/Linux]]/Solaris
*[[BlenderCAD]] [http://projects.blender.org/projects/blendercad/ (sito)] &amp;mdash; estensione CAD di Blender (versione alpha del 02/01/2004)
*[[CNC-Suite]] [http://sourceforge.net/projects/cnc-suite/ (sito)] &amp;mdash; CAD/CAM 2D e 3D per [[GNU/Linux]]
*[[Declic]] [http://emmanuel.ostenne.free.fr/declic/ (sito)] &amp;mdash; CAD per le scuole (solo in lingua italiana e francese) per Win e [[GNU/Linux]] (con Wine)
*[[DrGeo]] [http://www.ofset.org/drgeo/ (sito)] &amp;mdash; CAD 2D per le scuole finalizzato allo studio della geometria euclidea, per [[GNU/Linux]] e MacOSX
*[[FreeCAD]] [http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=49159 (sito)] &amp;mdash; CAD 2D e 3D basato su Open Cascade, QT e Python
*[[FREEdraft2D]] [http://freeengineer.org/FREEdraft-dead.html (sito)] &amp;mdash; CAD 2D per [[GNU/Linux]] basato su Open Cascade (ultima versione 18/02/2002)
*[[GCAM]] [http://gcam.js.cx/index.php/Main_Page (sito)] &amp;mdash; CAM per CNC (macchine a controllo numerico), per [[GNU/Linux]] e DOS/Win
*[[gEDA]] [http://www.geda.seul.org/index.html (sito)] &amp;mdash; CAD 2D e 3D per circuiti elettronici, per [[GNU/Linux]] e MacOSX
*[[gnu-cad-cam]] [http://gnu-cad-cam.sourceforge.net/index.html (sito)] &amp;mdash; CAD/CAM per [[GNU/Linux]] con GNOME (ultima versione 22/11/2000)
*[[gtkCAD]] [http://www.nongnu.org/gtkcad/ (sito)] &amp;mdash; CAD/CAM/CAE per [[GNU/Linux]] in fase progettuale
*[[IDOL]] [http://balder.prohosting.com/~projidol/ (sito)] &amp;mdash; CAD 2D e 3D per [[GNU/Linux]] (ultima versione 16/12/2000)
*[[JCad]] [http://javacad.sourceforge.net/ (sito)] &amp;mdash; CAD 2D multipiattaforma scritto in Java
*[[KLogic]] [http://www.a-rostin.de/klogic/index.html (sito)] &amp;mdash; CAD per simulazione circuiti logici, per [[GNU/Linux]] con KDE
*[[LeoCAD]] [http://leocad.gerf.org/index.htm (sito)] &amp;mdash; Software di disegno geometrico in 3D, permette di costruire figure in tre dimensioni usando mattoncini tipo lego
*[[Mobilia]] [http://mobiliasoft.com/ (sito)] &amp;mdash; Software Libero per Arredamento.
*[[OpenCAD]] [http://sourceforge.net/projects/opencad/ (sito)] &amp;mdash; [[framework]] CAD 2D e 3D scritto in Java. 
*[[Piglet Drawing Editor]] [http://www.omnisterra.com/walker/linux/piglet/intro.htm (sito)] &amp;mdash; CAD 2D per [[GNU/Linux]] basato su software proprietario di Hewlett-Packard HP PIGLET (Personal Interactive Graphic Layout EdiTor)
*[[Sailcut CAD]] [http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=60429 (sito)] &amp;mdash; CAD 2D/3D per la navigazione; per [[GNU/Linux]], MacOSX e Windows
*[[xSpace CAD]] [http://sourceforge.net/projects/xspace/ (sito)] &amp;mdash; CAD 2D per [[GNU/Linux]], MacOSX e Windows (versione alpha)
--[[User:Efa2|Efa2]] ([[User talk:Efa2|talk]]) 13:31, 25 September 2008 (UTC)&lt;br /&gt;
done--[[User:Efa2|Efa2]] ([[User talk:Efa2|talk]]) 22:57, 25 September 2008 (UTC)

== Timeline ==
2008-07-10 Done heaps of cleanup over at Commons, see http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:CAD, http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:CAD, http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:CAAD, http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:CAD_animation --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 11:41, 10 July 2008 (UTC)

== Nice to rename but ==
this list contains way more than AEC softwares. why rename rather than create the AEC list and link to it from the initial article ? --[[User:Dwarfpower|Dwarfpower]] ([[User talk:Dwarfpower|talk]]) 09:38, 4 December 2008 (UTC)
:you are right of course, please help me by removing the software to the comparisons they should be on. --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 23:49, 27 December 2008 (UTC)

==Cost==
A indicator price is not mentioned, include  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/91.176.210.145|91.176.210.145]] ([[User talk:91.176.210.145|talk]]) 08:44, 4 September 2009 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

==ArchiCAD/DATACAD input/output==
The input/output format noted at ARchiCAD/DATACAD says &quot;SkethUp&quot;, does this mean .kmz (see SketchUp#Google_SketchUp) ? If so, alter the text, also do the other sketchup import/output formats allow GPS data to be implemented ?

==Automatic 3D modelling==
Automatic 3D modelling is also possible, a article should be made on fetching the 3D data from eg SAR, ISAR, sonar, ... See http://www.directionsmag.com/article.php?article_id=628  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/81.243.191.8|81.243.191.8]] ([[User talk:81.243.191.8|talk]]) 17:38, 5 September 2009 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

==How does VARKON fit in all this?==
wikici[[Special:Contributions/67.86.58.205|67.86.58.205]] ([[User talk:67.86.58.205|talk]]) 13:27, 18 September 2009 (UTC)

==Open source vs. proprietary==
The items in the &quot;Open source?&quot; column in this article's table are colored differently depending on whether the software is open source or not. I have two complaints about this:

1. Green represents open source, and magenta represents proprietary. Usually on Wikipedia, green represents &quot;true&quot;, &quot;yes&quot;, or &quot;good&quot;, and anything towards red is &quot;false&quot;, &quot;no&quot;, or &quot;bad&quot;. This leads me to believe that this article is not neutral enough. Removing the coloring would make it neutral.
2. The column itself is titled &quot;Open source?&quot; rather than &quot;License&quot;, further affecting the neutrality.

HorvatM 13:55, 25 September 2009 (UTC)
:someone has dealt with this, I agree with the issue, but miss the colour coding. --[[User:DuLithgow|DuLithgow]] ([[User talk:DuLithgow|talk]]) 13:54, 29 October 2009 (UTC)

{{talkarchive}}
	</talkpage>
</article>