<article id="15731179" title=Talk:Walker Pond>
	<talkpage id="15731179" title="Talk:Walker Pond">
{{Talk header}}
{{WikiProject Lakes|importance=|class=stub}}
{{WikiProject United States|class=stub|importance=low|MA=yes|MA-importance=}}
{{Old AfD multi|date= [[16 Febraury]] [[2008]] |result= '''No Consensus''' |page= Walker Pond }}

==Jibberish==
How can a road be located on a pond? This is jibberish. [[User:Toddst1|Toddst1]] ([[User talk:Toddst1|talk]]) 04:10, 13 February 2008 (UTC)

==Perez Walker==
Made Perez Walker into a parenthesis.  Thanks Rckhound for your research.--[[User:Wageless|Wageless]] ([[User talk:Wageless|talk]]) 15:42, 25 February 2008 (UTC)

==Can someone make use of this==
                                      I found some info on Walker Pond 
The original settlers around lake tantasqua (people pronounce the pond differently in Sturbridge, cause there is a junior high and a high school called Tantasqua) were nipmuck inidans around 1648. Various artifacts have been found all around the area. Indian burial grounds have also been found. The town of Sturbridge was founded in 1735. It was based on land grants from the Colonial Governor for favors performed for the colony. The town did not include Worcester County Gore,which included Lake Tantasqua (the northern part.) In the year 1750 the original English Settlers , Nathaniel Walker, George Atkins, and Joseph Pierce petitioned the Town and the Colony of Massachusetts to be included in the Town of Sturbridge. The Name of the lake became Walkers Pond after the Walker Family. The family acquired most of the land around the lake. The remains of Nathaniel Walker's home can be seen on the upper level of Wells State Park's on Walker's Mountain Road. Nathaniel Walker's grandson, Perez Walker's cellar can be found next to the Interpreters Office. The Mountain Trail is the original road that led from Walker's Mountain to the meetinghouse in Sturbridge Center. The many stone walls in the area are the results of clearing stones to establish fields and Gardens. Another settler named John Carpenter established a saw mill on a brook leading to Walker Pond. The Dam located outside the park entrance supplied power to run the Sawmill.Carpenter's Rock, a cliff a little over 800 feet high, is named after this family. From the 1750's to 1900, the area was primarily farmland. In the 1900's the Wells Family, Which started American Optical co. in in Southbridge, bought the land around the lake. They established their homes on the east side of Walker Pond. In the 1960's the Wells Family sold the land on the east side of the pond to a developer. The land on the west side was sold to the state to establish Wells State Park. Wells State Park opened to camper's on July 19th 1968. The mill of the Mill Pond Trail was a grist mill. Hope someone will tell me if this info is useful. I will check out the sturbridge page because some of this info is sbout Stubridge.--   [[User:Rckhound1|Rckhound1]] ([[User talk:Rckhound1|talk]]) 22:10, 21 November 2008 (UTC)Rckhound1
	</talkpage>
</article>