<article id="2277798" title=Talk:Julius Peppers>
	<talkpage id="2277798" title="Talk:Julius Peppers">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|blp=yes|1=
{{WikiProject Biography |living=yes |class=Start |sports-priority=Mid |sports-work-group=yes|listas=Peppers, Julius
}}
{{WikiProject United States|class=Start|importance=low|UNC=yes|UNC-importance=low|listas=Peppers, Julius}}
{{WikiProject College football|class=Start|importance=high}}
{{WikiProject College basketball|class=Start |auto=yes |importance=}}
{{WikiProject Chicago|class=Start|auto=inherit|importance=}}
{{WikiProject National Football League}}
{{WikiProject Chicago Bears|class=Start|importance=High}}
}}

==Untitled==
GODDDD

== WikiProject class rating==
This article was automatically assessed because at least one WikiProject had rated the article as start, and the rating on other projects was brought up to start class. [[User:BetacommandBot|BetacommandBot]] 22:27, 9 November 2007 (UTC)

== I changed the opening sentence... ==

I took the liberty of changing the opening sentence, which at the time read, &quot;Julius Frazier Peppers loves his cousin seppehr pepper very much(born January 18, 1980 in Wilson, North Carolina is a professional American football player. --[[User:DavidD4scnrt|DavidD4scnrt]] ([[User talk:DavidD4scnrt|talk]]) 10:11, 28 March 2008 (UTC)




We've got us some vandalism here, but I can't bring myself to fix it. Somebody else do it for me. [[Special:Contributions/71.243.119.32|71.243.119.32]] ([[User talk:71.243.119.32|talk]]) 21:01, 16 March 2009 (UTC)

== Personal info is wrong ==

If Julius is the youngest of three children, and his mother gave birth to him at the age of 17, then that must mean that she had the other two when she was in middle school?! This should be changed and referenced!!! --[[User:MississippiMagnolia|MississippiMagnolia]] ([[User talk:MississippiMagnolia|talk]]) 13:00, 05 December 2009 (UTC)  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/68.19.144.39|68.19.144.39]] ([[User talk:68.19.144.39|talk]]) &lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

[[User:Footballfan90|Footballfan90]] ([[User talk:Footballfan90|talk]]) 17:17, 6 August 2013 (UTC)== I added information about Julius Peppers. ==

I added that Julius Peppers was voted by the NFL players as the 10th best player in the NFL after the 2010 season. Here is my source.
http://top100.nfl.com/

I added that Brian Urlacher thinks that Julius Peppers is the best football player he's ever seen, here is my source.
http://deadspin.com/5611609/brian-urlacher-thinks-julius-peppers-is-the-best-player-hes-ever-seen  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/174.97.177.48|174.97.177.48]] ([[User talk:174.97.177.48|talk]]) 15:40, 22 October 2011 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

Someone needs to change in the top right corner of Peppers profile under career highlights and awards that he won the defensive player of the month for 10/06 and not 11/08.
I also added that Julius Peppers won 4 defensive player of the week awards, here is my source.
http://www.chicagobears.com/team/player.asp?player_id=251  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/174.97.177.48|174.97.177.48]] ([[User talk:174.97.177.48|talk]]) 19:59, 22 October 2011 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

I have created a better page for Julius Peppers with more information about his football career, players such as DeMarcus Ware have their career's broken into seasons, that is the way Peppers' page needs to be. Thanks.  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Footballfan90|Footballfan90]] ([[User talk:Footballfan90|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Footballfan90|contribs]]) 06:48, 6 August 2013 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
: Better now, at least you added sources, unlike the IP (I don't know if that's you or not). Also, not every player needs their careers split into individual seasons, look at [[Brian Urlacher]] (a [[WP:GA|Good Article]]): it's split into time periods of 2001-2005, 2005-2012, and retirement. '''&lt;span style=&quot;text-shadow:#808080 0.2em 0.2em 0.2em&quot;&gt;[[User:ZappaOMati|&lt;font color=&quot;#0000FF&quot;&gt;Zappa&lt;/font&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/ZappaOMati|&lt;font color=&quot;#00FF00&quot;&gt;O&lt;/font&gt;]][[User talk:ZappaOMati|&lt;font color=&quot;#FF0000&quot;&gt;Mati&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;/span&gt;''' 14:05, 6 August 2013 (UTC)

That was me, sorry I didn't add any sources before. I just thought that Peppers' didn't have nearly enough information about his career in the article so I changed it. Your right about Brian Urlacher's article, it is a good one. I could have done Julius' like that I guess but I thought I'd use DeMarcus Ware's article as a reference. Thanks.  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Footballfan90|Footballfan90]] ([[User talk:Footballfan90|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Footballfan90|contribs]]) 17:06, 6 August 2013 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>