<article id="6758584" title=Talk:Conflict resolution>
	<talkpage id="6758584" title="Talk:Conflict resolution">
{{WikiProject Psychology|class=start|importance=mid}}
{{Sys rating|class=start|importance=mid|field=Systems psychology}}

===Agreement===
I think that some of us are a bit paranoid or perhaps jealously? I think that the person who has written this article has done a good job indeed. Thank you. Don't be discouraged by this people.

===Disagreement with merger proposal===
I don't agree with the merge proposal. I am of the view that the entries under [[conflict resolution]] and [[alternative dispute resolution]] and [[dispute resolution]] are in need of thorough reorganization, rewriting and interlinking. Alas, this will take more than a bit of tinkering. CAM 06:15, 27 December 2006 (UTC)

I have started rewriting the article on conflict resolution. It will take a lot of time. I am hoping that what I am doing will both reveal the reasons for merger discussion and eliminate the reason for requesting merger. [[User:Catherime Morris| CAM]] 23 August 2008  
----
Disagree with merge proposal.
Although Conflict and Dispute are often used interchangeably in the literature, the taxonomy of Fenn, Lowe and Speck (1997) is useful.  These researchers saw definite distinction between conflict and dispute.  Fenn, Lowe and Speck defined the two key terms as follows: -

''Conflict is defined as the “incompatibility of interest”.  

''Dispute is defined as a formal claim or demand, which requires resolution.
This difference in meaning is seen in the current seperate articles, [[Dispute resolution]] describes a formal process, while [[Conflict resolution]] is group orientated.
Kumaraswarmy (1997) also makes a similar distinction, taking the word dispute to imply a prolonged disagreement or unresolved conflict.  

Other researchers do not use these definitions, but use the words interchangeably, or use other words in their place, for example the use of claim to mean conflict in Semple, Hartman and Jergeas’s work (1994).

[[User:Parasite|Parasite]] 06:08, 6 September 2006 (UTC)

Here we seem to be quite far from the point. The question was whether we should use alternatively Dispute Resolution and Conflict Resolution. Actually in legal literature, more precisely in commercial arbitration, we often talk about Alternative Dispute Resolution. The fact that everyone in the field understands ADR means that this is quite of common sense. Therefore I can only agree that we make one article for these two terms if the titel is Dispute Resolution. ''the preceding [[WP:SIG|unsigned comment]] was added by [[User:Hexasyllabe|Hexasyllabe]] 18:02, 8 September 2006 (UTC)''

: I'm not convinced that this article is entirely about ADR - if it was I would agree with your point.  Perhaps a link from the first paragraph of the section &quot;Conflict resolution in groups&quot; to the ADR article would be a good compromise?
: Also, I have never seen a non-human primate involved in ADR, and this information would not be suitable for inclusion in the ADR page, and hence should remain here.
:[[User:Parasite|Parasite]] 08:39, 8 September 2006 (UTC)

::I '''disagree''' with the merge proposal, partially for the reasons above and partially because there is another difference between the two concepts.  'Conflict resolution' is a topic within International Relations specifically dealing with diplomatic efforts to end major conflicts, such as guerrilla and ethnic wars.  As far as I am aware, I've never heard the term 'dispute resolution' applied to this which doesn't surprise me, as the term 'dispute resolution' doesn't sound as extensive or intense, for lack of a better word.  My grad school (in International Studies)actually offers degrees in Conflict Resolution, though I've taken no classes within the field so am not well enough acquainted to write much else about it.  I do, however, know that no one here would use the term 'dispute resolution' interchangeably with 'conflict resolution. --[[User:The Way|The Way]] 10:15, 19 November 2006 (UTC)

===Link to &quot;The Office&quot;===
It seems out of place.  I double people go to wikipedia:conflict_resolution in hopes of finding information about the television shows episode which shares the same title.  I vote to remove, unless someone provides evidence supporting otherwise.. Thank you [[User:Santorummm|Santorummm]] 22:39, 11 September 2006 (UTC)

I do not see merging as a good idea. From an HRM (Human Resources Management)perspective there would be a difference between conflict and dispute. A dispute is more of a formally accepted problem. A conflict could be even a small disagreement

Comment: Are the editors of this page aware that the entire paragraphs describing &quot;hypothetical&quot; lose-lose (salesman's phone missing, punches hole in wall) and win-win-win (co-workers in love, broken engagement with warehouse worker) situations are exact copies of scenarios from &quot;The Office&quot;?

==A religious view==

*When we think about conflict resolution, we should recognize that we are talking about healing, repairing or restoring a broken partnership or relationship between subject and object. The broken partnership can be between a husband and a wife, a boss and the employee, a Muslim and a Hindu, or Israel and Palestine. Peace-building, and even human development, is ultimately about establishing correct, constructive, mutually beneficial relationships. [http://peacefederation.org/programs/conferences/assembly/assembly2005/index.php?report_id=527&amp;event_id=158]

* This relational approach could be mentioned in the article on &quot;conflict resolution&quot; (e.g. in a heading about &quot;conflict transformation&quot; -- which itself has different strands of thought ranging from Bush/Folger to Lederach-- and this could also be discussed in an article about &quot;reconciliation.&quot; [[user:Catherine Morris|CAM]] August 23, 2008.  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|undated]] comment was added at 22:27, 23 August 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!--Template:Undated--&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

==External links==

This part of the article was looking problematic.  It had numerous links to academic institutions advertising degree programs. This is not encyclopedic and does not actually help someone researching this topic.  I removed these links. If someone would like to make case for readding them, please comment.  Otherwise, I would suggest keeping these kind of links away from this article. [[User:LarryQ|LarryQ]] 12:32, 18 November 2006 (UTC)

as of 6/29/2011, link 9 is broken. Not sure where to report it so I'm putting it here.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/76.169.140.198|76.169.140.198]] ([[User talk:76.169.140.198|talk]]) 01:12, 30 June 2011 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Overlap ==

There seems to be substantial overlap between [[Conflict resolution]], [[Conflict resolution research]], and [[Peace and conflict studies]]. Perhaps one or more merges are advisable. --[[User:Rinconsoleao|Rinconsoleao]] 07:11, 16 August 2007 (UTC)
==Transcending Conflict==
Helpful material on transcending conflict is available at: http://www.emotionalcompetency.com/conflict.htm Perhaps information from here can be incorporated into the article. --[[User:Lbeaumont|Lbeaumont]] 02:35, 15 October 2007 (UTC)

==Merger proposal==
I propose that the [[dispute resolution]] article be merged into this one. &quot;Dispute resolution&quot; is sometimes used in statutes but schools (such as [http://icar.gmu.edu/ ICAR]) typically refer to it as conflict resolution. They have about an equal number of google hits. [[User:Sarsaparilla|Sarsaparilla]] ([[User talk:Sarsaparilla|talk]]) 02:29, 26 November 2007 (UTC)
: The distinction between ''conflict'' and ''dispute'' appears elusive here. I have (tentatively) tagged the article as requiring review by a [[Psychology|psychology]] expert. Views? --[[User:Henri 47|Henri]] 18:50, 2 December 2007 (UTC)
Common sense:  &quot;dispute&quot; refers to a single unresolved issue.  &quot;conflict&quot; is a combination of complicated, interrelated disputes which prevent a relationship from being functional.  In other words, &quot;dispute resolution&quot; focuses on resolving one issue, regardless of the relationship.  &quot;conflict resolution&quot; focuses on fixing a relationship; clearing up any conflicts for the end goal of enabling a working relationship.  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/75.24.208.216|75.24.208.216]] ([[User talk:75.24.208.216|talk]]) 19:47, 10 January 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Support for merger of Alternative Dispute Resolution, Conflict Resolution, Dispute Resolution, Appropriate Dispute Resolution ==

I '''support''' merger of Alternative Dispute Resolution, Conflict Resolution, Dispute Resolution, Appropriate Dispute Resolution pages.

I've been working in the field for some time and earned a graduate degree &amp; juris doctorate focused in ADR (or whatever term best fits for you).  The semantics debate in law reviews and in the field itself seems to have died down, as the field has become more established and integrated into the judiciary and businesses.

I would suggest directing searches for Alternative Dispute Resolution, Conflict Resolution, Dispute Resolution, Appropriate Dispute Resolution to one page where information can be consolidate.  There are wonderful resources on each of the respective pages but each page differs.

Perhaps a section to a unified page could be added discussing the evolution of the name of field.  All the names of the field tend to be used interchangeably but groups may have different preferences based on common usage due to their geographic region, industry, role or educational program.

A unified page would also help educate potential ADR consumers, litigants, the judiciary, industry and the bar.  Separate linked pages could focus on particular processes (example: mediation, consensus building, arbitration, etc.), applications and related organizations.

(Crossposted in Conflict Resolution, Dispute Resolution, Appropriate Dispute Resolution, etc).
--[[User:Iceweaselqueen|Iceweaselqueen]] ([[User talk:Iceweaselqueen|talk]]) 15:15, 20 January 2008 (UTC)

== Comments ==


==the diagram for the 2 dimension theory==
I remember there is a diagram for this. can some one make one? [[User:Jackzhp|Jackzhp]] ([[User talk:Jackzhp|talk]]) 12:22, 24 June 2012 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>