<article id="18876252" title=Talk:List of Crash Bandicoot series characters>
	<talkpage id="18876252" title="Talk:List of Crash Bandicoot series characters">
{{WikiProject Video games|class=List|importance=Low}}
{{WikiProject Fictional characters|class=List}}

{{archive box|[[/Archive 1|From Talk:Minor characters of Crash Bandicoot]]}}
==This page needs an overhaul==
i do think this could be better than a class c and i do not think it is of low importance because Crash Bandicoot was a major Playstation platform game. I think we can edit this down and put it on the main page for crash bandcoot and add smoe images for each character. This list CAN EASILY be shortened
:The page details characters from the entire ''Crash Bandicoot'' series, not just the first game. Besides, the characters themselves have hardly influenced popular culture enough to be qualified as anything higher than low-importance. And adding images to this kind of article would be an abuse of fair use as per [[Wikipedia:NFC]]. [[User:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo]] ([[User talk:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|talk]]) 02:53, 6 October 2009 (UTC)

==WTF? can't get rid of vandalism==
on the crunch bandiccot section someone put HE IS GAY at the end. i go to edit the article, its not there! i go back and refresh the page and it is still there WTF? [[Special:Contributions/82.25.130.155|82.25.130.155]] ([[User talk:82.25.130.155|talk]]) 17:57, 29 April 2009 (UTC)
Fixed it--[[Special:Contributions/209.81.123.14|209.81.123.14]] ([[User talk:209.81.123.14|talk]]) 21:25, 14 August 2013 (UTC)

==Penta Penguin==
I've noticed that Penta Penguin isn't featured as a character in this list and was wondering if you believe it should be added. He is first seen in Crash Bandicoot 3 : Warped. Dingodile attacks him moments before Crash versus him in the boss battle. He is then seen again in Crash Team Racing but can only be unlocked with a special code. And is last seen in Crash Bash where he can be seen in Crash's Snow Bash mini game.
:The only possible downside to adding him as a character in the list is that there is virtually no information available on him aside from his appearances to the three games i mentioned above.  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Metal fan93|Metal fan93]] ([[User talk:Metal fan93|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Metal fan93|contribs]]) 03:52, 30 December 2008 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;


==Rating change==
Wasn't this article B-Class a moment ago? [[User:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo]] ([[User talk:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|talk]]) 12:44, 19 August 2008 (UTC)
:I think it needs to have reception and/or development section before it can be considered a B-class article. --[[User:Mika1h|Mika1h]] ([[User talk:Mika1h|talk]]) 13:25, 19 August 2008 (UTC)
::Oh. Okay. [[User:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo]] ([[User talk:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|talk]]) 13:29, 19 August 2008 (UTC)


==Uh, what?==
What the hell happened to the individual articles? This condensed article sucks for us dial-up users.  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/142.77.225.79|142.77.225.79]] ([[User talk:142.77.225.79|talk]]) 02:00, 23 August 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:The subjects of the individual articles did not have enough real-world information to constitute their own articles. [[User:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo]] ([[User talk:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|talk]]) 02:50, 23 August 2008 (UTC)

::That's a pretty stupid reason. I mean, the Mario series has 1-dimensional characters with little to no background but they get seperate articles for their characters because they're popular? That's biased.  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/142.77.225.79|142.77.225.79]] ([[User talk:142.77.225.79|talk]]) 04:04, 23 August 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:::So are you :P --[[User:YowuzaZXWolfie|&lt;span style=&quot;color:MidnightBlue;&quot;&gt;Yowuza&lt;/span&gt;]] ZX[[User talk:YowuzaZXWolfie|&lt;span style=&quot;color:MidnightBlue;&quot;&gt; Wolfie&lt;/span&gt;]] 11:50, 1 September 2008 (UTC)
::Welcome to Wikipedia, mate. [[User:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo]] ([[User talk:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|talk]]) 12:44, 23 August 2008 (UTC)

I am VERY surprised Crash Bandicoot (character) has no article. He was very iconic and regonisible during the 90s.[[User:Super Badnik|'''&lt;font color=&quot;magenta&quot;&gt;Super Badnik&lt;/font&gt;''']] 18:55, 4 November 2008 (UTC)
:He used too (about 12 or so of the most major Crash Bandicoot characters had articles but they were merged here). [[User:Yowuza|Yowuza]] &lt;small&gt; [[User talk:Yowuza|Talk 2 me!]] &lt;/small&gt; 19:44, 4 November 2008 (UTC)
::Maybe reviving Crash's article should be talked about, as he is quite deserving as he is somewhat reconisible, more so in 90s.[[User:Super Badnik|'''&lt;font color=&quot;magenta&quot;&gt;Super Badnik&lt;/font&gt;''']] 19:23, 12 November 2008 (UTC)
:::There needs to be sufficient information on the character's creation/conception and the reception he has received from critics before he can have his own article again. [[User:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo]] ([[User talk:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|talk]]) 19:26, 12 November 2008 (UTC)
::::Judgeing by [[User_talk:Cat's_Tuxedo#Major_characters_of_Crash_Bandicoot|This section on your talk]], it might not be a bad idea. [[User:Yowuza|&lt;font face=&quot;Matisse ITC&quot; &gt;YOWUZA&lt;/font&gt;]] &lt;small&gt;[[User talk:Yowuza|Talk 2 me!]]&lt;/small&gt; 17:32, 17 November 2008 (UTC)

Another bone i have to pick is the choice of images. Crash Bandicoot's classic appearance is much more recongisble than his new one. Not saying there shouldn't be some images showing recent appearances of some characters.[[User:Super Badnik|'''&lt;font color=&quot;magenta&quot;&gt;Super Badnik&lt;/font&gt;''']] 18:42, 19 November 2008 (UTC)
:The article incorporates the characters' most recent appearance to keep the article up-to-date. [[User:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo]] ([[User talk:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|talk]]) 19:20, 19 November 2008 (UTC)
::But as a general introduction to the character, it is not so good because it is of a less recognizible appearance.[[User:Super Badnik|'''&lt;font color=&quot;magenta&quot;&gt;Super Badnik&lt;/font&gt;''']] 10:47, 20 December 2008 (UTC)
:::If a newcomer who's never seen or heard of Crash Bandicoot came to this article and saw Crash's old appearance, the user would most likely believe he still looks like that when he no longer does. The same thing would probably happen if an unknowing user saw Mickey Mouse's &quot;Steamboat Willie&quot; look before the current one. I say it's best if we keep the pictures up-to-date with the present appearances. [[User:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo]] ([[User talk:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|talk]]) 14:01, 20 December 2008 (UTC)
::::Maybe if we also had a picture of Crash's old look along with the new one, that'd be ok. --[[User:Yowuza|&lt;font face=&quot;Impact&quot; color=&quot;5F9EA0&quot;&gt;YOWUZA&lt;/font&gt;]] &lt;small&gt;[[User talk:Yowuza|Talk 2 me!]]&lt;/small&gt; 14:07, 20 December 2008 (UTC)
:::::That does sound like a logical solution, but I'm not sure how we're gonna fit it in the current article. If we had enough conception and reception info for Crash to have his own article, this wouldn't be too much of a problem. I think one of our top priorities right now is to find such sufficient info on the character and revive the article on him so that his past and present appearances may be included. [[User:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo]] ([[User talk:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|talk]]) 14:26, 20 December 2008 (UTC)
::::::See what they do on [[Joker (comics)#Live-action|Joker (comices)]], with the various actors. You could try that. &lt;span style=&quot;background-color: maroon; color: white;font-family: Trebuchet MS; cursor: crosshair;&quot;&gt;&lt;small&gt;'''&amp;nbsp;[[User:SpecialWindler|&lt;span style=&quot;cursor: crosshair;&quot;&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;yellow&quot;&gt;The Windler&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/span&gt;]]'''  '''[[User talk:SpecialWindler|&lt;span style=&quot;cursor: crosshair;&quot;&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;white&quot;&gt;talk&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/span&gt;]]'''&amp;nbsp;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;/span&gt; 21:34, 22 December 2008 (UTC)
With the image you're not getting what im saying. As a general introudction it is preffered that a more recognisible image is used. Not saying there shouldn't be newer images but the Crash's more iconic look is the one that was used before &quot;Crash of the Titans&quot;.[[User:Super Badnik|'''&lt;font color=&quot;magenta&quot;&gt;Super Badnik&lt;/font&gt;''']] 13:52, 22 December 2008 (UTC)

== Japanese names? ==

Why do the characters have their names in katakana after the English when the games were made in the US? [[Special:Contributions/82.29.34.28|82.29.34.28]] ([[User talk:82.29.34.28|talk]]) 18:06, 2 September 2008 (UTC)
:Because it might just be intresting for people to know what the Japanese names where? --[[User:YowuzaZXWolfie|&lt;span style=&quot;color:MidnightBlue;&quot;&gt;Yowuza&lt;/span&gt;]] ZX[[User talk:YowuzaZXWolfie|&lt;span style=&quot;color:MidnightBlue;&quot;&gt; Wolfie&lt;/span&gt;]] 11:21, 3 September 2008 (UTC)
::Besides, since Japanese video game-related articles tend to be of higher quality than American video game-based articles, it just might trick the other editors into thinking that the ''Crash''-related articles are of more importance than they actually are. [[User:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo]] ([[User talk:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|talk]]) 11:27, 3 September 2008 (UTC)
Weeaboooooo  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/81.154.155.227|81.154.155.227]] ([[User talk:81.154.155.227|talk]]) 16:20, 4 August 2009 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Major character reminder ==

I think we might need a little reminder over which characters belong in this page. The basic rule we have here is that a character can only appear on this page if they have been in over half of the Mainstream games (''Crash Bandicoot'', ''Cortex Strikes Back'', ''Warped'', ''Wrath Of Cortex'', ''Twinsanity'', ''Titans'' and ''Mind Over Mutant''). As it currently stands, we have 7 mainstream games, so characters have to be in four of them to be here.

Crash, Cortex and Aku Aku reached that goal after ''Wrath Of Cortex'', and at any rate are the only three characters to feature in all the mainstream games. Coco, N Gin and Tiny made it after ''Twinsanity''. Dingodile and Uka Uka got in after ''Titans''. Finally, ''Mind Over Mutant'' sees Crunch and N Brio get a space.

Bear in mind this isn't perminant. If there is another mainstream game, it will be the 8th one, meaning that the characters will need to have been in at least five games. Dingodile, Crunch and N Brio might not stay here forever. [[User:CBFan|CBFan]] ([[User talk:CBFan|talk]]) 17:54, 8 October 2008 (UTC)

:I think 3 mainstream appearences would be better, but still, good idea. [[User:YowuzaZXWolfie|&lt;span style=&quot;color:MidnightBlue;&quot;&gt;Yowuza&lt;/span&gt;]] ZX[[User talk:YowuzaZXWolfie|&lt;span style=&quot;color:MidnightBlue;&quot;&gt; Wolfie&lt;/span&gt;]] 15:58, 9 October 2008 (UTC)
Hahaha who the hell do you think you are
--[[Special:Contributions/203.51.61.239|203.51.61.239]] ([[User talk:203.51.61.239|talk]]) 04:20, 15 September 2009 (UTC)

==Reviewers' character/voice acting statements==
Here's some statements on the characters and voice acting made by video game reviewers that I think we can use to make a potential Reception section for this page.
:&quot;In this game, the male and female bandicoot look about as similar as [[List of Who Framed Roger Rabbit characters#Roger Rabbit|Roger]] and [[List of Who Framed Roger Rabbit characters#Jessica Rabbit|Jessica rabbit]].&quot; &quot;There is only one type of powerup, an old [[Māori|Maori]] mask that protects you much the way the shield does in ''[[Sonic the Hedgehog (series)|Sonic the Hedgehog]]'', but it works well enough for the game.&quot; &quot;Crash's quirky mannerisms are always refreshing.&quot; [http://www.gamerevolution.com/review/sony/crash_bandicoot] (A Game Revolution reviewer on ''Crash Bandicoot'')
:&quot;Until today I had no idea what a bandicoot was. For a while I even thought Naughty Dog just made it up. But now I know (and bonus points for anyone reading this that just said &quot;And knowing is half the battle”). According to the dictionary, a bandicoot is a giant rat. A giant rat. The playful mascot hero to a new generation of gamers is a giant rat. This means that one of two things is true. Either the boys at Naughty Dog are MENSA geniuses or they're hitting the hash pipe on a regular basis. However it happened, Crash Bandicoot became the first mascot for the PlayStation and a true classic.&quot; &quot;Then there's the block breaking that's [[Mario]]'s trademark and having [[Sonic the Hedgehog (character)|Sonic]]'s attitude (just check out that look he gives you before jumping the hog). And it looks like Dr. Cortex probably graduated from the same evil medical school as [[Doctor Eggman|Dr. Robotnik]]. They look like brothers.&quot; &quot;The only characters that come off a little blocky are the bosses. They're big, and because of that, a little polygonal. You kinda have to excuse it because of the game's age, but it's so very close to a perfect ten. And besides, any game that features a fox toting a tommy gun is all right by me. It's almost a shame the sound never rises above generic platform effects. Although the booooo-ahhhhhh! tiki mask effect is pretty slick.&quot; [http://www.gamingtarget.com/article.php?artid=1018&amp;gameid=16] (John Scalzo of Gaming Target on ''Crash Bandicoot'')
:&quot;Crash was disarmingly cute and fuzzy [in ''Crash Bandicoot'']&quot; [http://www.gamespot.com/ps/action/crashbandicoot2csb/review.html] (John Broady of GameSpot on ''Crash Bandicoot 2: Cortex Strikes Back'')
:&quot;In ''Crash 1'', the voices skipped and sounded fake. In this game though, the voice acting is completely smooth and the voice actors sound like they were actually paid this time.&quot; [http://www.psxextreme.com/ps1-reviews/8.html] (PsxKing of PSX Extreme on ''Crash Bandicoot 2: Cortex Strikes Back'')
:&quot;Still, my personal favorite is the baby bear that you can ride throughout levels (wait till you see Crash's expression when he gets on!).&quot; &quot;And with [[Clancy Brown]] (currently playing Sergeant Zim in ''[[Starship Troopers]]'') doing the hilarious satirical voice of Cortex, it seems even more like a cartoon.&quot; [http://www.gamerevolution.com/review/sony/crash_bandicoot_2_cortex_strikes_backs] (Mark Cooke of Game Revolution on ''Crash Bandicoot 2: Cortex Strikes Back'')
:&quot;The character voices aren't bad, though Cortex often sounds pretty hokey. I'm not sure how much is the talent of the actor, and how much is the talent of the script writers, but somewhere Cortex's dialogue goes wrong.&quot; [http://www.netjak.com/review.php/859] (Joseph &quot;Chicken Warrior&quot; Boutilier of Netjak on ''Crash Bandicoot 2: Cortex Strikes Back'')
:&quot;Crash Bandicoot started life as Sony's attempt at a mascot. He did reasonably well but never quite caught on like Mario or Sonic. But regardless of his status as a mascot, Crash has always managed to make a good game.&quot; &quot;character voice-overs that are not only extremely well done, but the onscreen lip-synching is almost perfectly matched to the voice.&quot; [http://www.gamespot.com/ps/action/crashbandicoot3warped/review.html?tag=tabs;reviews] (Ryan MacDonald of GameSpot on ''Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped'')
:&quot;Sound, in terms of voices, fits perfectly into the cut-scenes. Crash's friends and enemies are equally funny, everything is over-exaggerated. I would go so far as to say it is the best voice acting in a game - the voices are like those in good cartoons, and sometimes even better! The music is equally cartoonish, there is lots of old Warner Brothers type stuff in Crash, but then again, he's always been awfully similar to the Tazmanian Devil.&quot; [http://www.gamerevolution.com/oldsite/games/sony/action/crash_bandicoot_3.htm] (Mark Cooke of Game Revolution on ''Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped'')
:&quot;There is some voice acting during the Adventure Mode, and the voice acting may not be the best but it is very good. When Aku-Aku speaks to you, the quality of speech is very very good, never any break up and the sound always stays crisp and clear.&quot; [http://www.psxextreme.com/ps1-reviews/9.html] (SolidSnake of PSX Extreme on ''Crash Team Racing'')
:&quot;if you can push aside the maniacally smiling, pasted-on smile of Crash bursting across the finish line&quot; &quot;These are just some of areas Naughty Dog addressed that make ''CTR'' a superior kart game. The list goes on and on, and with at least one exception, I think they're all totally credible. This one is just too damn close for comfort, and it simply must have been left in as a ridiculous joke. When playing as Crash, he says at least two things, one when he's smashed, and another when he is sent spinning. When he spins off, he says, &quot;woah-whoa-whoa-whoa,&quot; EXACTLY like the voice of [[Luigi]] in ''Mario Kart''. Is that some kind of joke or what?&quot; &quot;only a couple of the voices seemed to have any life. Aside from the cloning of Luigi voice, only a few of the characters say anything worth repeating to your opponent while playing, or for that matter, remembering. I do remember repeating the too-cute sayings in ''Mario Kart'' and ''Diddy Kong Racing'', like, Wario's &quot;Ohhhh! I knew it!&quot; or Pipsy's &quot;I'm Pipsy&quot; because it was so stupid and mousy. But sound-wise, there's nothing really that cute, clever or memorable in ''CTR''.&quot; &quot;once you get past the insanely capitalistic smile of Crash&quot; &quot;I feel a little like Crash and Lara Croft have something in common, which is that I've seen too much of them in the last four years. I know it's terrible to say, but I'm kinda of sick of Crash Bandicoot, and I could take a big long vacation from him and his comical dance for a long while. It took me a long time to get into this game because every time I look at Crash can see dollar signs blinking in his eyes.&quot; &quot;And what's with Crash sounding like Luigi?&quot; [http://psx.ign.com/articles/161/161595p1.html] (Doug Perry of IGN on ''Crash Team Racing'')
:&quot;Sorry to say this without much of a softening up speech, but Crash Bandicoot is the most see-through, copycat mascot that ever existed, and he's once again ripped off a game concept from another mascot. He stole Sonic's hip, brash personality and Mario's ideas, and now, I'm coincidentally sad to say he doesn't even belong exclusively to the PlayStation or PS2.&quot; &quot;the simple, almost retarded voices of each character still ring in my head.&quot; [http://psx.ign.com/articles/164/164717p1.html] (Doug Perry of IGN on ''Crash Bash'')
:&quot;the voice acting couldn't be better. Each and every voice actor does a great job at filling in his/her role. Uka-Uka and Neo Cortex are as sinister sounding as they've ever been. Even though Crash doesn't speak a word throughout the game, Cocoa's voice sounds great too. Although, at times it seems like Aku-Aku's voice-actor just doesn't sound right. It's rather melodramatic, if you will.&quot; [http://www.psxextreme.com/ps2-reviews/98.html] (Arnold Katayev of PSX Extreme on ''Crash Bandicoot: The Wrath of Cortex'')
:&quot;convincing voice work that occurs after a boss has been defeated.&quot; [http://www.gamespot.com/ps2/action/crashbandicootthewoc/review.html?om_act=convert&amp;om_clk=gssummary&amp;tag=summary%3Bread-review&amp;page=2] (Shane Satterfield of GameSpot on ''Crash Bandicoot: The Wrath of Cortex'')
:&quot;poor voice work&quot; &quot;And then there’s the voice acting. It’s bad. At the same time, it’s nice to see [[Mark Hamill]] is still getting work. Does no one else feel sad that [[Luke Skywalker]] has been relegated to doing voice work for mediocre video games? I do, and I wasn’t even a ''Star Wars'' fan.&quot; [http://www.planetps2.com/features/reviews/2001/crashbandicoot4/] (Andrei Alupului of GameSpy on ''Crash Bandicoot: The Wrath of Cortex'')
:&quot;It is really annoying to hear a child say, &quot;Whoa!&quot; every time you fall in the water, especially when you realize that the child's voice is supposed to be Crash.&quot; [http://ps2.gamezone.com/gzreviews/r18394.htm] (Louis Bedigian of GameZone on ''Crash Bandicoot: The Wrath of Cortex'')
:&quot;He's assisted by Coco, a less powerful and less enjoyable playable character. Coco pops into specific levels and must be used to pass that area. She's just not fun the way crash is. Crash is a silly creature to look at. He's almost absurd, which works great with his various animations. Coco isn't really silly at all. The game isn't called ''Crash and Coco'' so why must I be forced to play her? Rather than add variety, Coco detracts from the only real selling point of the game -- Crash Bandicoot.&quot; &quot;Crash offers plenty of humorous animations to enjoy&quot; &quot;smooth animations for Crash&quot; [http://xbox.ign.com/articles/358/358095p1.html] (Hilary Goldstein of IGN on ''Crash Bandicoot: The Wrath of Cortex'')
:&quot;Voice-overs are believable and there is even a cameo by Mark Hammill.&quot; [http://xbox.gamezone.com/gzreviews/r18394.htm] (Carlos McElfish of GameZone on ''Crash Bandicoot: The Wrath of Cortex'')
:&quot;Coco's inclusion is mostly unnecessary&quot; &quot;Crash's sister, Coco, is also a playable character. She is not nearly as dynamic as Crash, but offers a good chance of pace. One of her moves is a foot stomp. Why are all women good at that?&quot; (Mike Sabine of GameSpy on ''Crash Bandicoot: The Wrath of Cortex'')
:&quot;When you play a level as Coco instead of Crash, there's no explanation or warning given--you'll simply enter the level's portal as Crash and come out the other end as Coco. It's not all bad, but compared with ''[[Super Mario Sunshine|Sunshine]]'', it seems very uneven.&quot; [http://www.gamespot.com/gamecube/action/crashbandicootthewoc/review.html?om_act=convert&amp;om_clk=gssummary&amp;tag=summary;read-review] (Matthew Gallant of GameSpot on ''Crash Bandicoot: The Wrath of Cortex'')
:&quot;The design of Crash is, as always, in top form, as the character retains his humorous edge complete with wacky, over-the-top animations, which are still welcomed.&quot; &quot;some of the characters come off more as annoying than anything else.&quot; &quot;Voice acting is welcomed, though over the top at points.&quot; [http://cube.ign.com/articles/371/371324p1.html] (Matt Casamassina of IGN on ''Crash Bandicoot: The Wrath of Cortex'')
:&quot;over-acted vocal characterizations&quot; [http://gamecube.gamezone.com/gzreviews/r18394.htm] (Michael Lafferty of GameZone on ''Crash Bandicoot: The Wrath of Cortex'')
:&quot;You'll look forward to defeating each boss not just because you're that much closer to beating the game, but to witness some of the best in-game dialogue and funniest voice acting around.&quot; &quot;Or sometimes you'll have to just use Cortex with his blaster or his gothic niece (or daughter?) Nina, who almost steals the show with her sassy skip and her ''[[Bionic Commando]]''-like extension arm. I actually wouldn't mind seeing more of Nina in the future.&quot; &quot;As I stated earlier, the dialog is definitely worth listening to, even if it's to die and play it back to your friends. Dr. Cortex (voiced by Lex Lang) shows a side of the evil doctor that we haven't seen before. The majority of it is the writing, but a good deal of it also goes to the delivery. The dialog for the remaining characters is solid, too, but Cortex is the one you want to keep listening to.&quot; [http://ps2.ign.com/articles/554/554364p1.html] (James B. Pringle of IGN on ''Crash Twinsanity'')
:&quot;Crash's overextended running style and self-punishing attacks establish him as an empty-headed but enthusiastic character, and Cortex's constant creeping and sniveling are a great showcase of the kinds of neuroses that might cause one to gain an interest in evil science.&quot; &quot;Though Crash expresses himself exclusively through [[Red Skelton]]-esque facial contortions, most of the other characters are blessed with the gift of speech. The voice work is generally pretty good, and it fits with the game's cartoony but slightly off-kilter style, with the strained grandeur of Cortex's speech standing out as the most accomplished.&quot; [http://www.gamespot.com/ps2/action/crashtwinsanity/review.html?page=2] (Ryan Davis of GameSpot on ''Crash Twinsanity'')
:&quot;I personally found the dialog unfunny and rather tiring, but there are plenty of people that will laugh out loud and enjoy the cutscenes.&quot; [http://www.psxextreme.com/scripts/reviews2/review.asp?RevID=321] (Aaron Thomas of PSX Extreme on ''Crash Twinsanity'')
:&quot;I've touched upon probably the most fun part of this game with that last line: Dr. Cortex spends about 90% of the time he's on camera having abuse heaped on him like a classic Warner Brothers character. From being chased and assaulted by bees, to learning firsthand what it's like to be used as a Whack-a-Mole hammer, Dr. Cortex never catches a break... and his dialogue makes it clear he doesn't deserve one. Just about all of the game's best lines come from Cortex, and his voice actor brings it home solidly. He may be on the way to being my favorite mad scientist ever and that's a heck of a feat. Someone get his voice actor into another role RIGHT NOW. I want more of him. If Cortex pulls down the best lines of the game, Crash has the best facial expressions. The boy is about as sharp as a sack of hair and he proves it every time the camera zooms in on him, or every time his attention span visibly wanders off to play with the butterflies while other stuff is going on around him. He's great to watch.&quot; &quot;The voice acting, as mentioned, is all pretty darned solid stuff.&quot; &quot;Crash's falling animations are funny, but not -that- funny.&quot; [http://www.worthplaying.com/article.php?sid=20646&amp;mode=thread&amp;order=0] (Worth Playing on &quot;Crash Twinsanity&quot;)
:&quot;The humor of ''Crash Twinsanity'' goes hand in hand with the voice-overs that provide the dialog of the game. The voice acting is well done, with the right amount of sarcasm, humor and attitude to keep players laughing. Dr. Cortex is probably the best and most entertaining character of the game since players get a completely different look at his personality this time through.&quot; &quot;the vocal dialog and random chatter is what really stands out as the most positive aspects of the audio department of ''Crash Twinsanity''.&quot; &quot;The voice acting is hilarious and probably what really drives the action of the game all together. Cortex in particular is very funny and his sarcasm and evil attitude are a perfect match for his personality.&quot; [http://reviews.teamxbox.com/xbox/810/Crash-Twinsanity/p3/] (Brent Soboleski of TeamXbox on ''Crash Twinsanity'')
:&quot;It's worth noting that these cinematics features genuinely clever and funny dialogue, which is only accented by the quality voice-actors used in the game.&quot; [http://www.gaming-age.com/cgi-bin/reviews/review.pl?sys=ps2&amp;game=crash_twinsanity] (Chris Faylor of Gaming Age on ''Crash Twinsanity'')
:&quot;Also new to the series is Nina Cortex, the twisted Doctor’s niece (or perhaps his daughter?).  Although she’s a Goth girl that attended the Academy of Evil and possesses two bionic arms, Nina still shows a fondness for furry animals.  She’s an inventive character you get to control later in the game and I must say that she’s one of the many highlights this game has to offer.  Remember the NES action game, ''Bionic Commando''?  Nina’s bionic hands allow her to reach higher places and allow her to swing her way to the other end of a platform.&quot; &quot;The expressive characters show plenty of personality and this adds more to the sight gags.  It’s funny to see how totally clueless Crash is and it’s even funnier watching him bend Dr. Cortex into his own personal sled.&quot; &quot;One of the game’s other major strengths is the wonderfully hysterical dialogue.  The biggest laughs, believe it or not, come from Doctor Neo Cortex who comes off as nutty in the best possible way.  He’s filled with witty observations and often pokes fun of his past encounters with Crash.&quot; &quot;The addition of Nina Cortex and her bionic arm just adds even more spice to this tasty dish.&quot; &quot;but it’s the voice acting--particularly when it comes to Dr. Cortex--that makes this game worth your every attention.  The twisted Doctor is one hilarious bloke and his dialogue just makes him all the more likeable.&quot; &quot;And bionic Goth girl Nina Cortex is a very welcome addition to the series.&quot; [http://xbox.gamezone.com/gzreviews/r23742.htm] (Nick Valentino of GameZone on ''Crash Twinsanity'')
:&quot;Some of the character voices are annoying, especially Pasadena.&quot; &quot;though occasionally you'll hear funny chirps from NPCs who you spin into and cause them to flip their ice cream cones onto their heads.&quot; &quot;A few of the characters have decent voices, though others are annoying.&quot; [http://ps2.ign.com/articles/660/660492p3.html] (Charles Onyett of IGN on ''Crash Tag Team Racing'')
:&quot;Cute, colorful characters with solid voice acting&quot; &quot;Some of the voice acting is kind of obnoxious, but quite a bit of it is also damn funny. Bits of the henchmen dialogue in particular is great fun, as are the woefully underutilized pair of chicken commentators, who sound like send-ups of [[Howard Cosell]] and [[Charles Barkley]].&quot; [http://www.gamespot.com/ps2/driving/crashtagteamracing/review.html] (Alex Navarro of GameSpot on ''Crash Tag Team Racing'')
:&quot;rich, colorful, and amusing banter from the characters&quot; [http://ps2.gamespy.com/playstation-2/crash-tag-team-racing/665439p1.html] (Hector Guzman of GameSpy on ''Crash Tag Team Racing'')
:&quot;The cheesey voice acting is here in fine form, with actors delivering all their mildly funny lines with as much gusto as possible.&quot; [http://www.worthplaying.com/article.php?sid=31115&amp;mode=thread&amp;order=0] (Worth Playing on ''Crash Tag Team Racing'')
:&quot;Crash and his fellowship of wacky characters are all very colorful and well animated if not a little too cute for my liking. The voiceovers straddle the fence between funny and annoying.&quot; &quot;The game is littered with colorful characters and color commentary provided by a Howard Cossel sound-a-like chicken and his hip partner. Not only do they provide some entertaining dialogue but they also explain how to play the game which is often overlooked in many of todays kids games.&quot; &quot;Characters in the world can be talked to by walking up and pressing the talk button (triangle on the PS2). If anything I had a good laugh at the [[Andrew Dice Clay]] sound-a-like selling clothing.&quot; [http://cheatcc.com/xb/rev/crashtagteamracing.html] (Cole and Vaughn of Cheat Code Central on ''Crash Tag Team Racing'')
:&quot;''Crash'' has an interesting array of characters, and we're introduced to each of these within the opening sequence. Although a little presumptuous in explaining who the characters are, the popularity of this series can afford a few assumptions in our level of familiarity with its cast. Two new additions are the commentators, a fantastic parody of the many commentary pairings that are synonymous with American televised sport. They add their own sharp wit and humour that has become a major selling point of the ''Crash'' series, as well as providing detailed in-game hints on the various controls of the game.&quot; &quot;Crash and his various friends and foes have taken on whole new caricatures that are all warming in their own way. Even the evil Nitro [Neo Cortex] has taken a slightly dopier, camper representation than his predecessors, which gives him a more lovable feel.&quot; [http://www.acegamez.co.uk/reviews_xbox/Crash_Tag_Team_Racing_Xbox.htm] (Rob Byron of AceGamez on ''Crash Tag Team Racing'')
:&quot;One good thing is that the voice acting is really solid and added to that fact is that some of the dialog is pretty funny.&quot; [http://gamecube.gamezone.com/gzreviews/r26249.htm] (Michael Knutson of GameZone on ''Crash Tag Team Racing'')
:&quot;Solid voice acting.&quot; &quot;Still, Radical manages to tuck some good humor into the proceedings, which, more often than not, is thanks to some strong readings from a cast of veteran voice actors.&quot; [http://www.gamespot.com/wii/action/crashofthetitans/review.html] (Ryan Davis of GameSpot on ''Crash of the Titans'')
:&quot;Oh Crash Bandicoot, you were never popular enough to hang around with the cool kids like Mario and Sonic, and yet you've still avoided that depressing mascot retirement home where the likes of Aero the Acrobat and Zero the Kamikaze Squirrel reside (look them up if you have no idea who I'm talking about). However, as spotty as some of Crash's adventures have been in the past, there is still something likeable about the slightly deranged marsupial. Maybe it's because he looks like he stuck his finger in an electrical socket while biting into a lemon. Yeah, that might be it.&quot; &quot;The smaller minions actually say some pretty funny, if not dated, things (yay for [[Chuck Norris]] and l33t jokes... I guess).&quot; &quot;The humor is pretty spotty: some of the minions are pretty funny but other things just cause groans and headaches. But they wanted to make a Saturday morning cartoon, and that's what they did.&quot; &quot;The voice cast with either endear themselves to you or make you break things.&quot; [http://wii.ign.com/articles/827/827903p1.html] (Michael Pereira of IGN on ''Crash of the Titans'')
:&quot;The voices seem to be a little overdone and get on your nerves after a while.&quot; [http://www.gamechronicles.com/reviews/wii/crash/titans.htm] (Brian Wylie of Game Chronicles on ''Crash of the Titans'')
:&quot;The most annoying thing about this game is that the developer must have found the most annoying voice actors in the world for this game. The voices will get on your nerves quick, you will be reaching for your remote really fast to mute the sound.&quot; [http://wii.gamezone.com/gzreviews/r32363.htm] (Michael Knutson of GameZone on ''Crash of the Titans'')
:&quot;The voice-cast pulls through and delivers funny dialogue that will make players chuckle.&quot; [http://xbox360.gamezone.com/gzreviews/r32363.htm] (Dakota Grabowski of GameZone on ''Crash of the Titans'')
:&quot;Characters are based on famous personalities and give the game a great sense of humour. Expect to rub shoulders alongside characters based on [[Mr. T]], [[Mike Tyson]], and even [[Gollum]] from ''The Lord of The Rings''. It works nicely, as the inclusion of these likenesses gives the game greater appeal to the older generations. There is also an underlining sense of humour throughout the title that will wash over the younger gamers heads as they bash their way through. The voice acting does come across childish, but certain characters tend to come out with memorable one-liners that will gain a smile from the more mature player.&quot; [http://www.thunderboltgames.com/reviews/viewreview/1164] (Nick Akerman of Thunderbolt on ''Crash of the Titans'')
:&quot;Crash is back again, as expected, but this time he’s fresh out of rehab. While the outdated, fingerless gloves have been replaced by equally outdated tribal tattoos, the obnoxiously extreme attitude is gone. Now he’s a bluthering, googly-eyed idiot. I don’t know when or why the change happened, but it’s better than the popular goatee-of-rage that so many other platform giants are sporting these days.&quot; &quot;By the fourth level, Crash can slap Aku Aku’s face into the ground and ride it like a surfboard. It seemed harshly inconsiderate, but I considered it payback for his gratingly poor impersonations of that other floating head of wisdom – Frylock.&quot; [http://www.gamerevolution.com/review/xbox360/crash_of_the_titans] (Brian Rowe of Game Revolution on ''Crash of the Titans'')
:&quot;Character detail on Crash is very nice, but I'm not super happy with some of the artistic choices they've made for him. The tribal tatoos aim at the 'edgy' approach and try to snaz up Crash's appearance, but to me it just seems a little pretentious - Crash is better off without them. The mohawk patch he's sporting is far more defined than it ever has been, again, making Crash seem as if he's trying too hard to be cool. Furthermore, because Crash is now a puncher, his still-stance has him putting his dukes up like a boxer - it's just so out of character for the marsupial. So my word of advice to Sierra is to tone it down. Crash Bandicoot is a highly recognizable character who doesn't need a makeover of any kind - just look at Mario, Link and Sonic. That said, ''Crash of the Titans'' is still a pretty looking game, with a solid framerate. The game features a large amount of voice acting, some of it decent, some of it downright awful. The decent parts are usually when Aku Aku is talking, and that's about it. As soon as other characters open their mouths, it gets pretty hard to listen to. Crash especially sounds awful, largely because he doesn't actually speak - he just blabs annoying gibberish, which makes him sound like he's an infant. So, yeah, the voice acting wears thin awfully quick. Thankfully, the soundtrack stays true to the ''Crash Bandicoot'' formula, and that's a plus.&quot; [http://www.psxextreme.com/ps2-reviews/562.html] (Arnold Katayev of PSX Extreme on ''Crash of the Titans'')
:&quot;The voice acting in ''Crash of the Titans'' is not simply atrocious. If it were, then it would be something players could at least tune out. But when the villain turns out to be an over-amped drama queen cranked up to an 11, and the rest of the cast speak in either platitudes or phrases so simplistic any third grader could come up with a better comeback, then the sound score suffers.&quot; [http://gamingtrend.com/Reviews/review/review.php?ReviewID=931] (Mitch Youngblood of GamingTrend on ''Crash of the Titans'')
:&quot;Crash, who is supposed to be a deranged bandicoot, sounds more like a confused baby. Other characters such as Coco have really annoying voices that make you want to take a power drill to your temple to make the pain stop. The only voices that have any merit are the smaller creatures in the first five levels, who sound a lot like [[Jerry Lewis]] from ''The Nutty Professor''.&quot; [http://palgn.com.au/article.php?id=9307&amp;sid=1b25de6236b392b85a142879a3dbb700] (Matt Keller of PALGN on ''Crash of the Titans'')
:&quot;Crash looks a little floofier and a lot edgier, gaining a spikier Mohawk and trading in his fingerless gloves for tribal ink all up and down his arms. He also now squawks incoherently, almost like the bird from ''[[Banjo Kazooie]]''. With all the alterations, though, ultimately he's been changed for the better. He looks a little cooler and more appealing than his more &quot;Japanese-inspired&quot; edits over the years.&quot; [http://ds.ign.com/articles/826/826456p1.html] (Craig Harris of IGN on the DS version of ''Crash of the Titans'')
:&quot;But Crash’s character design has gone from cool to goofy and now to the dreaded place of being dorky. Only minute changes have been made over the years – his eyes seem to bulge a little differently, his nose might be larger, and his hair looks like he got the Mohawk Special from Fantastic Sam's. These changes, no matter how subtle, have really hurt Crash’s appearance as a leading game character. We live in a world where a plumber and a hedgehog are considered cool. There is no reason why a bandicoot shouldn’t be given artwork that is worthy of the same praise and respect.&quot; [http://wii.gamezone.com/gzreviews/r35286.htm] (Louis Bedigian of GameZone on ''Crash: Mind over Mutant'')
:&quot;While the gameplay isn’t all that inspired, Mind Over Mutant does have incredibly strong voice acting and humorous dialogue that will probably remind you of ''[[Ren &amp; Stimpy]]'' cartoons. It’s not surprising, considering that Billy West and Tom Kenny (best known for ''[[Spongebob Squarepants]]'') are among the veteran voice-acting cast used to give the creatures in this strange cast a lot of personality.&quot; [http://reviews.teamxbox.com/xbox-360/1591/Crash-Bandicoot-Mind-over-Mutant/p1/] (Andy Eddy of Team Xbox on ''Crash: Mind over Mutant'')

Huh. That was a lot more than I expected I would gather up. [[User:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo]] ([[User talk:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|talk]]) 02:51, 16 January 2009 (UTC)

== Marsupials ==

Bandicoots are marsupials. So, I was wondering something. Does Coco have a pouch? [[User:Vuerqex|Vuerqex]] ([[User talk:Vuerqex|talk]]) 13:55, 26 February 2009 (UTC)

==Add new character descriptions==
It would be good if somebody could add pictures and character descriptions to the characters that have not got an article.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/203.51.61.239|203.51.61.239]] ([[User talk:203.51.61.239|talk]]) 04:26, 15 September 2009 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:Giving all the characters a picture in this kind of article is fair use abuse as per [[Wikipedia:NFC#Non-free image use in list articles]]. Although I will see what I can do about the descriptions. [[User:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|]] ([[User talk:Cat&amp;#39;s Tuxedo|talk]]) 05:58, 15 September 2009 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>