<article id="12760597" title=User talk:Hujin~enwiki>
	<talkpage id="12760597" title="User talk:Hujin~enwiki">
==Welcome to [[Wikipedia]]!==
Hello, '''{{PAGENAME}}''', and [[Wikipedia:Welcome, newcomers|welcome]] to Wikipedia. Thank you for [[Special:Contributions/{{PAGENAME}}|your contributions]]. I hope you like the place and decide to stay. If you are stuck, and looking for help, please come to the '''[[Wikipedia:New contributors' help page|New contributors' help page]]''', where experienced Wikipedians can answer any queries you have! Or, you can just type '''&lt;code&gt;{&amp;#123;helpme}}&lt;/code&gt;''' and your question on your user talk page, and someone will show up shortly to answer. Here are a few good links for newcomers: 
*[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The Five Pillars of Wikipedia]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]]
*[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Editing tutorial]]
*[[Wikipedia:Picture tutorial|Picture tutorial]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to write a great article|How to write a great article]]
*[[Wikipedia:Naming conventions|Naming conventions]]
*[[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]] 
We hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! By the way, you can sign your name on talk and vote pages using four tildes, like this: &amp;#126;&amp;#126;&amp;#126;&amp;#126;. If you have any questions, see the [[Wikipedia:Help|help pages]], add a question to the [[Wikipedia:village pump|village pump]] or ask me on &lt;!-- [[{{ns:3}}:{{{1}}}|my Talk page]] (broken) --&gt; my talk page. Again, welcome! --[[User:VoltronForce|VoltronForce]] 04:53, 14 August 2007 (UTC)

== Your account will be renamed ==

&lt;div class=&quot;plainlinks mw-content-ltr&quot; lang=&quot;en&quot; dir=&quot;ltr&quot;&gt;
Hello,

The developer team at Wikimedia is making some changes to how accounts work, as part of our on-going efforts to provide new and better tools for our users like cross-wiki notifications. These changes will mean you have the same account name everywhere. This will let us give you new features that will help you edit and discuss better, and allow more flexible user permissions for tools. One of the side-effects of this is that user accounts will now have to be unique across all 900 Wikimedia wikis. See [[m:Special:MyLanguage/Single User Login finalisation announcement|the announcement]] for more information.

Unfortunately, your account clashes with another account also called Hujin. To make sure that both of you can use all Wikimedia projects in future, we have reserved the name Hujin~enwiki that only you will have. If you like it, you don't have to do anything. If you do not like it, you can [[Special:GlobalRenameRequest|pick out a different name]]. If you think you might own all of the accounts with this name and this message is in error, please visit [[Special:MergeAccount]] to check and attach all of your accounts to prevent them from being renamed.

Your account will still work as before, and you will be credited for all your edits made so far, but you will have to use the new account name when you log in.

Sorry for the inconvenience.

Yours,&lt;br /&gt;[[m:User:Keegan (WMF)|Keegan Peterzell]]&lt;br /&gt;Community Liaison, Wikimedia Foundation
&lt;/div&gt; 00:38, 20 March 2015 (UTC)
&lt;!-- SUL finalisation notification --&gt;

== Renamed ==

&lt;div class=&quot;plainlinks mw-content-ltr&quot; lang=&quot;en&quot; dir=&quot;ltr”&gt;
This account has been renamed as part of [[m:Special:MyLanguage/Single User Login finalisation announcement|single-user login finalisation]]. If you own this account you can [[{{#special:userlogin}}|log in using your previous username and password]] for more information. If you do not like this account's new name, you can choose your own using this form after logging in: [[{{#special:GlobalRenameRequest}}]]. -- [[m:User:Keegan (WMF)|Keegan (WMF)]] ([[m:User talk:Keegan (WMF)|talk]])
&lt;/div&gt; 13:56, 22 April 2015 (UTC)
&lt;!-- SUL post-rename notification --&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>