<article id="39036735" title=Talk:NASA Human Exploration Rover Challenge>
	<talkpage id="39036735" title="Talk:NASA Human Exploration Rover Challenge">
{{dyktalk|17 April|2013|entry=... that the '''[[Great Moonbuggy Race]]''' is underway right now?|views=8700}}

== References ==
Much of this information comes from NASA media - press releases and the Marshall Star, the Marshall Space Flight Center newsletter.  I would rather have external media sources, and they certainly exist, but locating them is more challenging.  I wanted to err on the side of including the information rather than omitting important data because I had not yet been able to dig up the information.  Research assistance is appreciated, especially if you are local to the winners and can look in the newspaper archives just before and after the race. -- [[User:Ke4roh|ke4roh]] ([[User talk:Ke4roh|talk]]) 03:27, 7 April 2013 (UTC)

== Please add &quot;best design&quot; winners ==
If you'd like to help, please add the &quot;Best design&quot; winners for each year.  The references given include that information - I simply haven't had time to include it here.  -- [[User:Ke4roh|ke4roh]] ([[User talk:Ke4roh|talk]]) 13:26, 17 April 2013 (UTC)

== Winners in other categories ==
What should we do for the multitudinous awards each year?  [[2012 Boston Marathon]] lists winners for various categories and has some pictures.  We certainly have enough media (from the NASA press release and NASA photos of the event) to do something like that, but notability becomes an issue for such fine-grained articles. -- [[User:Ke4roh|ke4roh]] ([[User talk:Ke4roh|talk]]) 13:26, 17 April 2013 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>