<article id="14306824" title=Talk:List of Bollywood films of 2008>
	<talkpage id="14306824" title="Talk:List of Bollywood films of 2008">
{{WP India|class=list|importance=low|cinema=yes|cinema-importance=low}}
{{Film|class=list|Indian-task-force=yes}}

== release dates ==

Release dates are important. It will tell if the film is released in January or December of 2008. Since table is sortable it will be sortable retrospectively. [[User:Courts noble|Courts noble]] ([[User talk:Courts noble|talk]]) 09:38, 6 May 2008 (UTC)

:No they are not needed, definitely not. [[User:Shshshsh|&lt;span style=&quot;color:blue&quot;&gt;'''''Shahid'''''&lt;/span&gt;]] • &lt;sup&gt;''[[User talk:Shshshsh|&lt;span style=&quot;color:teal&quot;&gt;Talk&lt;/span&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;color:black&quot;&gt;'''2'''&lt;/span&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;color:teal&quot;&gt;me&lt;/span&gt;]]''&lt;/sup&gt; 12:51, 6 May 2008 (UTC)

::why not? [[User:Courts noble|Courts noble]] ([[User talk:Courts noble|talk]]) 07:09, 7 May 2008 (UTC)
:::this is a list of films that are released in 2008. I had taken them from target articles. Shahid reverting my hard work, without courtesy of posting a reply here. What do you lose if we include release dates without which the list is of hardly any use. [[Special:Contributions/195.189.142.168|195.189.142.168]] ([[User talk:195.189.142.168|talk]]) 17:22, 19 May 2008 (UTC)
::::I don't &quot;revert your hard work&quot;. It's great that you're working on it, but please do not include release dates, because it's '''''improper format''''' for these kinds of lists. These lists are listed and ordered alphabetically. [[User:Shshshsh|&lt;span style=&quot;color:blue&quot;&gt;'''''Shahid'''''&lt;/span&gt;]] • &lt;sup&gt;''[[User talk:Shshshsh|&lt;span style=&quot;color:teal&quot;&gt;Talk&lt;/span&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;color:black&quot;&gt;'''2'''&lt;/span&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;color:teal&quot;&gt;me&lt;/span&gt;]]''&lt;/sup&gt; 18:07, 19 May 2008 (UTC)

::2008 is different as some of the films are unreleased. I personally would not object to anywbody adding release dates as long as they are referenced. In fact when I initially created the film lists we debated whether or not to cinlude release dates for all. In the end we decided against as it clutters the tables.
Most of all I want the lists to be consistent and if somebody starts adding release dates to 2008 they'll start doing it to the others and before you know it all of the other lists will be plagued with unreferenced dates and the works.  Really with Indian film I had intended the last column to be for the Playback singers/composers of the films -music is particularly important for Bollywood especially I think. I would suggest a special section underneath for up and commuing film release dates -this way it doesn't mess up the table but if anybody adds any unreferenced or unreliably sourced dates they should quite rightly be reverted.

[[User:Blofeld of SPECTRE| &lt;span style=&quot;border:1px solid blue;padding:1px;&quot;&gt; &lt;font style=&quot;color:#fef;background:black;&quot;&gt;'''''♦Blofeld of SPECTRE♦'''''&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;/span&gt;     &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:Blofeld of SPECTRE| &lt;font size=&quot;-4&quot;&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;Black&quot;&gt;'''$1,000,000?'''&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/font color&gt; ]]&lt;/sup&gt; 20:10, 19 May 2008 (UTC)

::Since the table is sortable, it would be of great value if release dates are added. We will know what are the movies currently running on theaters. Also what are the films to be released soon / next week, this info is not available in net in a single place, but it can be made available in wiki. Also only drawback suggested is it would clutter, does it really do? [[User:Courts noble|Courts noble]] ([[User talk:Courts noble|talk]]) 06:16, 25 May 2008 (UTC)
::Also as for source, imdb link mentioned below has release dates for every movie. Thanks. [[User:Courts noble|Courts noble]] ([[User talk:Courts noble|talk]]) 04:06, 26 May 2008 (UTC)

lolo

Template is causing clutter, so i moved it to bottom. So that it will be easy to edit table. Once year 2008 is over, not much edit will be necessary thereafter, and we move template back to top for uniformity with other articles. Cheers! [[User:Courts noble|Courts noble]] ([[User talk:Courts noble|talk]]) 04:09, 26 May 2008 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>