<article id="4813291" title=Talk:Football League Trophy>
	<talkpage id="4813291" title="Talk:Football League Trophy">
{{football|class=Start|importance=Low|England=yes}}

== 2006 sponsorship controversy ==
Many Wikipedia articles have controversial issues under their own heading. This is because there is usually a specific interest in these articles. Surely this should be done for the 2006 sponsorship controversy as well?

:its not really of that much importance, and only one paragraph [[User:Robdurbar|Robdurbar]] 21:24, 19 April 2006 (UTC)

doncaster won it this year

== Luton's ranking ==
The article mentions Luton being lowest rank winners at 92nd.  That would be their league &quot;ranking&quot;, but given that the trophy is only open to the bottom half of the entire league system, there would never be a number 1 ranked winner? Wouldn't a ranking of 48 be better?  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/86.161.68.85|86.161.68.85]] ([[User talk:86.161.68.85|talk]]) 22:55, 7 October 2009 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== 1982/83 Football League Trophy ==

I see that this has been left out of this section.

Any particular reason why?

The Final was held at Lincoln City's ground Sincil Bank on 20th April 1983 between Lincoln City &amp; Millwall. Millwall won 3-2
[[User:GazzaLDN|GazzaLDN]] ([[User talk:GazzaLDN|talk]]) 05:59, 6 April 2011 (UTC)

:The 1982/83 event is included under the [[Football League Group Cup]] article, a tournament which started under that name in 1981/82 (as a follow on from the [[Anglo-Scottish Cup]]), but which was named for 1982/83  season as FLT. However, the format of the 82/3 event was exactly the same as 81/2 (notably it was still open to First and Second Division sides) and thus it is regarded as a different event, although there are some sources that regard the FLGC as an early version of the FLT. [[User:Eldumpo|Eldumpo]] ([[User talk:Eldumpo|talk]]) 16:16, 4 May 2011 (UTC)

== Sponsor versus Sponsorship section ==

There is a Sponsorship section in the middle of the article and a Sponsor section at the end of the article that has pretty much exactly the same information in them.  Is there any reason that one of the two shouldn't be erased?[[User:Zappa2496|Zappa2496]] ([[User talk:Zappa2496|talk]]) 14:36, 26 August 2012 (UTC)
: Good point. Done now. [[User:Eldumpo|Eldumpo]] ([[User talk:Eldumpo|talk]]) 20:30, 25 September 2012 (UTC)

== Piss Pot ==

Any footbalfans here call this competitiion &quot;The Paint Pot&quot; or &quot;The Piss Pot&quot;  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/77.86.21.206|77.86.21.206]] ([[User talk:77.86.21.206|talk]]) 22:25, 26 October 2012 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Updated Non-final Attendance Record ==

If someone could just check it over, I'd appreciate it - I'm new! Craig 23:15, 5 February 2013 (UTC)  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Cookiecraig|Cookiecraig]] ([[User talk:Cookiecraig|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Cookiecraig|contribs]]) &lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Anglo - Scottish cup idea ==
I am writing to you with an idea to bring back the Anglo - Scottish Cup between all Scottish Premier and all English League One teams. 

Bring back the Anglo - Scottish Cup 





We need to bring back the Anglo - Scottish Cup , only this time between all Scottish Premier and English League One sides. 
My idea would be a group stage format. With every team in the Scottish Premier and English League One who have qualified for European trophies being given a bye to the knockout stages of the Anglo Scottish Cup. 
The group stage games would be played at the same time as the qualifying rounds for the Champions League and Europa League. So this would be during the OK weather periods of the year. 
Imagine games like Glasgow Celtic V Wolves, Bristol V Inverness, Aberdeen V Bradford and Glasgow Rangers V Milton Keynes. 
If Bala Town, of the Welsh League, can travel to Latvia and Celtic can travel to Kazakhstan, then surely Yeovil can travel to Dingwall to play Ross County. .
I have travelled to Spain, Italy and Greece. It is not difficult in this day and age to travel up and down Britain. They have a British and Irish cup in rugby so why can't an Anglo Scottish cup be done with the much richer sport of soccer. 
The Scottish - English derby is one of the most passionate in World football, so let's exploit this for club soccer. 
It would be like European football for the smaller teams. 
The advantage of sticking teams who have qualified for Europe in the knockout stages is that it would ensure some good Scottish teams would qualify for the knockout stages. 
The old Anglo Scottish cup failed becuase the best Scottish sides did no participate and the Scottish V Scottish games got poorer crowds. This can be solved by two solutions 
1) The best Scottish sides who have already qualified for Europe are placed in the knockout stagesof the Anglo Scottish cup.
2) The draw is fixed so Scottish clubs do not play Scottish sides in thr early rounds. 
My idea is that the final would be played in turn at the Millenium Stadium, Hampden and Wembley.
I realise that like the league cup early rounds would see teams using second choice sides and we would see low attendances, but this would be good development practice for the younger players, as Man Utd and Arsenal do in the league cup. And as the cup went on to the later rounds, the teams would bring out their first choice players and attendances would get bigger. 
To improve attendances I would include the group stage games as part of the season tickets sales. 
Even the English trophy between league one and league two sides gets good crowds in the final so surely Celtic v Bolton would get a good crowd. 
Some English people might say well what about crowd trouble and they would point to the famous Rangers apperance in the UEFA cup final in Manchester a few years ago. But crowd trouble could be avoided with common sense travel, police and game time precautions, as is done with Man Utd v Liverpool and Celtic V Rangers games. 
The Rangers crowd trouble was caused because Rangers fans were given free transport to Manchester and 100,000 Rangers fans mostly without tickets travelled down for a late kick off game. Ofcourse that was recipe for disaster, as it would be for a Man Utd V Liverpool game. But nobody says lets ban Man Utd V Liverpool games. This situation could be avoided by discouaging non ticket holders to travel to games and by not providing free transport. The final and semi final games could be played at 3 in the weekend so their would less time for fans to get drunk. 
I would love to see Scottish and English sides play eachother in a competitive trophy. It would reinvigorate Scottish soccer and be fun for English clubs who never play outside England.  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—&amp;nbsp;Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Roryfyfesmith|Roryfyfesmith]] ([[User talk:Roryfyfesmith|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Roryfyfesmith|contribs]]) 15:10, 21 March 2014 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== External links modified ==

Hello fellow Wikipedians,

I have just added archive links to {{plural:1|one external link|1 external links}} on [[Football League Trophy]]. Please take a moment to review [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?diff=prev&amp;oldid=678509468 my edit]. If necessary, add {{tlx|cbignore}} after the link to keep me from modifying it. Alternatively, you can add {{tlx|nobots|deny{{=}}InternetArchiveBot}} to keep me off the page altogether. I made the following changes:
*Added archive https://web.archive.org/20101206115721/http://napit.co.uk/viewus/infobank/football/footballleaguetrophy.php to http://www.napit.co.uk/viewus/infobank/football/footballleaguetrophy.php

When you have finished reviewing my changes, please set the ''checked'' parameter below to '''true''' to let others know.

{{sourcecheck|checked=false}}

Cheers. —[[User:Cyberbot II|&lt;sup style=&quot;color:green;font-family:Courier&quot;&gt;cyberbot II]]&lt;small&gt;&lt;sub style=&quot;margin-left:-14.9ex;color:green;font-family:Comic Sans MS&quot;&gt;[[User talk:Cyberbot II|&lt;span style=&quot;color:green&quot;&gt;Talk to my owner]]:Online&lt;/sub&gt;&lt;/small&gt; 20:45, 29 August 2015 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>