<article id="6761241" title=Talk:Lviv Theatre of Opera and Ballet>
	<talkpage id="6761241" title="Talk:Lviv Theatre of Opera and Ballet">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Dance|class=start|importance=|Ballet=yes}}
{{WikiProject Opera|class=Start}}
{{WikiProject Ukraine|class=start|importance=mid}}
}} 
{{DYK talk|31 August|2006|entry=..that the '''[[Lviv Opera and Ballet Theater]]''', in [[Lviv]], [[Ukraine]] combines details of the [[Renaissance architecture|Renaissance]] and [[Baroque architecture|Baroque]] architecture?}} 

== DYK nomination +footnotes issue ==

I would like to nominate this article for the DYK.  Will post the DYK phrase shortly.  Also, for some reason, the footnotes are screwed up.  When I only insert 1 footnote, two show up.  Can anyone solve this issue?--[[User:Riurik|Riurik]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:Riurik|(discuss)]]&lt;/sup&gt; 06:12, 30 August 2006 (UTC)
:Ok, so the footnote issue went away somehow.  The DYK phrase:

::...that the '''[[Lviv Opera and Ballet Theater]]''', in [[Lviv]], [[Ukraine]] combines details of the [[Renaissance architecture|Renaissance]] and [[Baroque architecture|Baroque]] architecture?--[[User:Riurik|Riurik]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:Riurik|(discuss)]]&lt;/sup&gt; 06:18, 30 August 2006 (UTC)

*More reliable non-Polish sources, notably architectural books, in English, are required before this page is considered for anything whatsoever. At a time when the Austrian authorities were, at the behest of the Ukrainians and the Ruthenians, attempting to suppress the Polish language etc., in Lemberg it would have been ridiculous to suggest all that this page does. According to ''The Habsburg Empire'' by Franz Hubman (Vienna &amp; London, 1971, p.271) the architects responsible for this theatre were Hellmer and Fellner, who were responsible for building nearly all Austro-Hungarian provincial theatres. [[Special:Contributions/81.131.211.131|81.131.211.131]] ([[User talk:81.131.211.131|talk]]) 10:25, 11 April 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>