<article id="3581312" title=User talk:Lolpatrol>
	<talkpage id="3581312" title="User talk:Lolpatrol">
== Welcome to Wikipedia! ==

Season's Greetings {{PAGENAME}}, '''[[Wikipedia:Welcome, newcomers|welcome]]''' to Wikipedia!

I noticed nobody had said hi yet... Hi!

If you feel a change is needed, feel free to make it yourself!  Wikipedia is a [[wiki]], so anyone (yourself included) can edit any article by following the '''{{MediaWiki:edit}}''' link. Wikipedia convention is to [[Wikipedia:be bold|be bold]] and not be afraid of making mistakes.  If you're not sure how editing works, have a look at [[Wikipedia:how to edit a page|''How to edit a page'']], or try out the [[Wikipedia:Sandbox|Sandbox]] to test your editing skills.

You might like some of these links and tips:
*'''some [[Wikipedia:Simplified Ruleset|General guidance]].'''
*[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]] and the [[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]].
*Find out how to [[WP:RV|revert]], [[Wikipedia:Merging and moving pages|move and merge]] pages.
*[[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|Sign your posts on talk pages]] using four tildes (&amp;#126;&amp;#126;&amp;#126;&amp;#126;).
*Add yourself to the [[Wikipedia:New user log|New user log]] and a [[WP:RNB|regional notice board]]
*Ask questions at the [[Wikipedia:Village pump|Village pump]] or [[Wikipedia:Help desk|Help desk]].
*Use the [[Wikipedia:Show preview|Show preview]] button
*Provide an [[Wikipedia:Edit summary|Edit summary]]
*Add the correct [[WP:ICT|image copyright tag]] to any images you upload
*Take a look at [[Wikipedia:Consensus|Consensus of standards]]
*Create a [[Wikipedia:User page|User page]]

If, for some reason, you are unable to [[Wikipedia:How_to_edit_a_page | fix a problem yourself]], feel free to ask someone else to do it. Wikipedia has a vibrant [[Wikipedia:Community_Portal | community of contributors]] who have a wide range of skills and specialties, and many of them would be glad to help. As well as the wiki community pages there are [[meta:IRC Channels | IRC Channels]], where you are more than welcome to ask for assistance.

If you have any questions, feel free to '''ask me''' on [[User talk:Wiki alf|my talk page]]. Thanks and happy editing, -- [[User:Wiki_alf|Alf]] &lt;sup&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;green&quot;&gt;[[User_talk:Wiki_alf|melmac]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/sup&gt; 20:15, 31 December 2005 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>