<article id="6001827" title=Talk:List of programs broadcast by CTV and CTV Two>
	<talkpage id="6001827" title="Talk:List of programs broadcast by CTV and CTV Two">
{{oldafdfull
| date =July 11 2006
| votepage =Lists of programs broadcast by networks
}}

== &quot;Just For Laughs Gags&quot; ==
It says &quot;Just For Laughs Gags&quot; aired on the network.  I don't remember it being on CTV.  I remember it being on CBC.  &lt;span style=&quot;background:black&quot;&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;color:red&quot;&gt;Mr. C.C.&lt;/span&gt;&lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:Fishhead2100|&lt;span style=&quot;color:white&quot;&gt;Hey yo!&lt;/span&gt;]]&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;sub&gt;[[Special:Contributions/Fishhead2100|&lt;span style=&quot;color:red&quot;&gt;I didn't do it!&lt;/span&gt;]]&lt;/sub&gt;&lt;/span&gt; 19:04, 16 July 2011 (UTC)

== Canadian content ==
i'm tired of CTV being labeled a &quot;Canadian broadcaster&quot; despite playing so many American programs which are on ABC, CBS, FOX and NBC anyway.  The only &quot;Canadian&quot; part is the CTV logo and the commercials, especially when we can't see Super Bowl commercials.  :(

Anyway, my point is, good job for labeling primetime content in red if it is Canadian.  But what about the rest of the programming?  i suggest we put it in '''bold''', or create a morning schedule.  Thanks.  --[[User:True Tech Talk Time|True Tech Talk Time]] ([[User talk:True Tech Talk Time|talk]]) 23:31, 25 January 2012 (UTC)

:All currently playing Canadian content has a check mark in a green box.  Other programs have an &quot;X&quot; in a red box.  This is to emphasize that CTV is becoming less and less of a Canadian broadcaster, and Canada's culture is at risk.  --[[User:True Tech Talk Time|True Tech Talk Time]] ([[User talk:True Tech Talk Time|talk]]) 19:13, 30 April 2012 (UTC)

== Requested merge ==

It is proposed that [[List of programs broadcast by CTV Two]] should be merged into this article.

'''Why?:''' Because CTV's programming and CTV Two's programming is changing everyday and will switch often, if we put these all in one article it will be not as many changes everyday and CTV puts programming on CTV Two if stuff is on at the same time, will this happens often and is impossible to keep up. [[User:TBrandley|TBrandley]] ([[User talk:TBrandley|talk]]) 04:54, 15 February 2012 (UTC)
* '''Agreed'''.  i have merged CTV and CTV Two's current shows into one table!  There is also a way to check if the show airs on CTV, CTV Two or both.  All that is left now are the former shows.  It's unbelievable how many reruns and American simsubs CTV plays!  --[[User:True Tech Talk Time|True Tech Talk Time]] ([[User talk:True Tech Talk Time|talk]]) 19:11, 30 April 2012 (UTC)

== American versus foreign shows ==
Why does this page separate &quot;American&quot; from &quot;Foreign&quot; shows. Most of the &quot;Foreign&quot; shows are American. Please merge or re-edit. There's too many for me to wade through. And update dates: Anger Management &quot;will&quot; premiere in 2012?  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/96.55.176.138|96.55.176.138]] ([[User talk:96.55.176.138|talk]]) 20:06, 5 June 2013 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
: i'm unable to go through all of them right now, but as one current example, CTV airs the Australian series ''Satisfaction''.  i could be wrong, though.  i think the best approach is to move all American shows in an American section and everything else can be in Foreign/International.  i think CTV should be ashamed for having so many non-Canadian shows outnumbering their Canadian ones.  --[[User:True Tech Talk Time|True Tech Talk Time]] ([[User talk:True Tech Talk Time|talk]]) 22:24, 5 June 2013 (UTC)
: Just went through half the list.  It's not that difficult: most of the shows are American.  --[[User:True Tech Talk Time|True Tech Talk Time]] ([[User talk:True Tech Talk Time|talk]]) 17:36, 17 June 2013 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>