<article id="14735534" title=Talk:Battle of Dagu Forts (1900)>
	<talkpage id="14735534" title="Talk:Battle of Dagu Forts (1900)">
{{WPMILHIST|class=C
|B-Class-1=n|B-Class-2=y|B-Class-3=y|B-Class-4=y|B-Class-5=yes
|Chinese=yes
|US=yes
}}
{{WPCHINA|class=Stub|history=yes|importance=mid
}}
{{OnThisDay|date1=2013-06-17|oldid1=560361858|date2=2014-06-17|oldid2=613110768|date3=2015-06-17|oldid3=667372571}}

== Fighting between germans and russian garrisoning the fort ==

http://paperspast.natlib.govt.nz/cgi-bin/paperspast?a=d&amp;d=EP19010508.2.34

[[User:Rajmaan|Rajmaan]] ([[User talk:Rajmaan|talk]]) 07:23, 1 December 2012 (UTC)

== Jane Elliot's account of the Battle ==

Jane E. Elliott, ''Some Did It for Civilisation, Some Did It for Their Country : A Revised View of the Boxer War'' (Hong Kong: The Chinese University Press,  2002) makes the argument that western armies at the time and western historians have seriously neglected the Battle of the Dagu Forts, some even denying that it ever took place. Would someone more knowledgeable like to evaluate this claim and perhaps work it into this article? The Google book is at [http://books.google.com/books?id=wWvl9O4Gn1UC&amp;printsec=frontcover&amp;vq=all+things+modern#v=onepage&amp;q=Battle%20of%20Dagu&amp;f=false Jane Elliot Some Did it For Civilisation] [[User:CWH|ch]] ([[User talk:CWH|talk]]) 03:34, 10 December 2012 (UTC)

:the phrasing she used means that [http://books.google.com/books?id=wWvl9O4Gn1UC&amp;pg=PA495#v=onepage&amp;q&amp;f=false historians denied that chinese forces offered any resistance at dagu forts], not that they claim it didn't happen. That page seems to be criticing other scholars for laziness in details in their works.

:and there does exist such lazy scholarship. I've seen some minor errors in some works like thesis such as one person claiming that Nie Shicheng's tenacious army attacked at langfang while it was dong fuxiang's gan army that did it. Lanxin xiang also managed to write about dong fuxiang's army and claim that they were used to brutally crush a muslim rebellion, without mentioning that the soldiers of Dong Fuxiang that crushed the muslim rebellion were muslim, [[Dungan revolt (1895–1896)]]. Just by reading lanxin xiang's work without cross referencing it with any others, and you get the impression that Dong Fuxiang was an islamophobe. [[User:Rajmaan|Rajmaan]] ([[User talk:Rajmaan|talk]]) 05:08, 10 December 2012 (UTC)

::Thanks for the clarification, Rajmaan. Elliott does say that &quot;one eminent historian went so far as to say that the battle of Dagu never happened.&quot; (p. 397) But now that I look at the reference (p. 480 n. 57, which is to Esherick p. 302-303) I am not sure that she is exactly right. Esherick does not &quot;say that the battle of Dagu never happened.&quot; He does indeed leave out mention of any Chinese resistance, which is almost but not quite the same. In any case, her point is well taken. [[User:CWH|ch]] ([[User talk:CWH|talk]]) 05:52, 10 December 2012 (UTC)

:::Thanks for the observation, Rajmaan.  CWH has responded to you on Elliott.  I admit to being puzzled about Dong Fuxiang and where he was and where he wasn't.  Writers have claimed that he and his men participated in about every battle in Northern China during the Boxer Rebellion -- including some that were separated widely in distance.  Was his army broken into several pieces?  Or was he only in Peking carrying out the [[Siege of the International Legations]]? I don't know.  Perhaps a competent Chinese scholar could clear this up.  The English sources are vague, and probably unreliable, on Chinese commanders and armies.  Smallchief 11:32, 10 December 2012 (UTC)

:::::one contemporary source, i think appleton's, claimed that a part of the kansu braves broke off at langfang and followed seymour to tianjin where they participated in battles on the outskirts. I read a chinese language source that mentioned multiple &quot;camps&quot; of soldiers, from the same army as being stationed in various places along the shanhaiguan beijing route. 

:::::i'm not sure if the tenacious army or the kansu braves fired at seymour's force while he was retrating back to tianjin. The german/russian trained tenacious army was definitely manning the krupp guns at tianjin itself, and not the kansu braves. Both the expedition and the tianjin concessions came under heavy, accurate artillery fire by krupp guns and both modern and contemporary sources from 1900 say that the shells hit precisely where they were aimed and would have wiped out the concessions except they were filled with duds due to corruption in the chinese arms industry. The krupp guns in beijing were way off mark while the ones in tianjin were dead accurate. We need to create separate articles on the tenacious army and the other chinese armies.[[User:Rajmaan|Rajmaan]] ([[User talk:Rajmaan|talk]]) 02:08, 11 December 2012 (UTC)

:::OK, but to use a &quot;contemporary source&quot; would not be a good idea because: 1) Many reports published at the time, such as Appleton's, are not [[WP:Reliable|reliable sources]] (one newspaper editor at the time said that half of the articles he printed were completely fabricated). While some are good, we don't know which is which. 2) In any case, using contemporary sources for facts and events is [[WP:OR|Original Research]], which is against Wikipedia policy precisely for this reason. Frustrating, to be sure. It would be like a judge listening to only one witness, without cross examination, or even putting the witness under oath. [[User:CWH|ch]] ([[User talk:CWH|talk]]) 07:08, 11 December 2012 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>