<article id="15262940" title=Talk:Mark Campbell (political consultant)>
	<talkpage id="15262940" title="Talk:Mark Campbell (political consultant)">
{{WPBiography|living=yes|class=start|listas=Campbell, Mark}}
{{WikiProject Pennsylvania|class=start|importance=low}}

Can we take off the &quot;multiple issues&quot; tag? Everything is sourced, and is in chronological order, and entanglements with another Campbell have been removed. ([[User:Ed Gris|Ed Gris]] ([[User talk:Ed Gris|talk]]) 13:27, 8 December 2010 (UTC))

This article makes my head spin.  It needs to be re-ordered chronologically, from 1993 to present. And say why Campaigns Magazine did a profile article on him.  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Ed Gris|Ed Gris]] ([[User talk:Ed Gris|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Ed Gris|contribs]]) 13:01, 27 November 2010 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Contested Prod ==
I added a ref a few days ago that leads me to think that I can make a decent case for notability. Give me a few days, and I'll see what I can come up with. --[[User:Blargh29|Blargh29]] ([[User talk:Blargh29|talk]]) 15:12, 17 October 2009 (UTC)
*I added a few more refs that I think should establish notability, especially the profile in Campaigns &amp; Elections, which is one of the top magazines for politicos. The article is from 1993 and I can't find a copy online. Anybody have any ideas? The article is still a mess, but it is greatly improved over its earlier state, where it read like a 5 year old's press release. So, I removed some of the cleanup tags, but left the BLP one, because there are some facts that need to be cited.--[[User:Blargh29|Blargh29]] ([[User talk:Blargh29|talk]]) 17:36, 17 October 2009 (UTC)

Looking much better [[User:Vinithehat|Vinithehat]] ([[User talk:Vinithehat|talk]]) 17:39, 17 October 2009 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>