<article id="4007145" title=User talk:Grimdon01>
	<talkpage id="4007145" title="User talk:Grimdon01">
==[[Easter Ross]]==

Wecome to Wikipedia, glad to see your contributions.  I take it that you, like myself, are based in the Eastern Highlands?

With regard to your comments on the Easter Ross accent, these could be expanded to refer to other features of the accent, and to Easter Ross dialect words.  I have recently made some comments on the page [[Talk:Highland_English]] which may be relevant.

To me, the &quot;overuse of bey&quot; comment makes what you have said sound rather frivolous, and no doubt what you wrote was intended at least partly in a joking manner - but if you were to expand your comments in a serious manner you would make a useful contribution.  You might want to consider whether to add a new sub-heading to the article [[Highland English]] and cross-refer it from [[Easter Ross]].THEREFORE I WILL HAVE TO CUT OFF YOUR NIPPLES

The other point which is currently being heavily emphasised in Wikipedia is that you must give sources. You'll notice that someone added an external link to your article [[Highlands and Islands Fire and Rescue Service]] - and this is probably why. Wikipedia's rules state that articles should not be &quot;original research&quot; but should be verifiable - see [[Wikipedia:No original research]].  Other comments may be made on the &quot;talk&quot; or &quot;discussion&quot; pages.  --[[User:PeterR|PeterR]] 22:47, 8 February 2006 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>