<article id="10438767" title=Talk:LinuxMCE>
	<talkpage id="10438767" title="Talk:LinuxMCE">
{{WikiProject Computing|class=|importance=}}
==Requests for article expansion:==
*More screenshots are needed, different skins with comments/explanation. See sources:
http://wiki.linuxmce.com/index.php/Screenshots

* mention FreeSwitch now that it is available on linuxMCE?  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/168.251.194.18|168.251.194.18]] ([[User talk:168.251.194.18|talk]]) 16:02, 17 July 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

==Questions:==
LinuxMCE is new and so notability is a tough one. I'm fairly sure it will become important though so deleting and then re-adding seems a waste... [[User:213.143.18.224|213.143.18.224]] 14:08, 3 April 2007 (UTC)

LinuxMCE is NOT &quot;an add-on to Ubuntu designed to allow a PC to act as a Media PC.&quot; btw [[User:216.113.96.78|216.113.96.78]] 02:44, 9 April 2007 (UTC)

Maybe the article should mention [http://plutohome.com/ Pluto], which is the biggest component of LinuxMCE; in fact, I'd even go so far as call LinuxMCE nothing more than a nice repackaging of Pluto for Ubuntu. Even parts of the documentation in the LinuxMCE-Wiki is just copied exactly from the Pluto-Wiki... [[User:Douglas77|Douglas77]] 20:02, 3 August 2007 (UTC)

::&quot;...nothing more than a nice repackaging of Pluto for Ubuntu&quot;.  Plubuntu?  [[User:Alfred Centauri|Alfred Centauri]] 13:30, 5 September 2007 (UTC)

*I would like to add that PlutoHome is **NOT** licensed under any commonly accepted open-source license, such as GPL, etc. Please see the PlutoHome license on their website, and then see the LinuxMCE license on their site.... wait, there is none. Also see the Pluto FTP site they are now hosting LMCE stuff there  &lt;small&gt;—The preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment was added by [[Special:Contributions/{{{IP|{{{User|64.238.173.64}}}}}}|{{{IP|{{{User|64.238.173.64}}}}}}]] ([[User talk:{{{IP|{{{User|64.238.173.64}}}}}}|talk]]) {{{Time|03:11, August 22, 2007 (UTC)}}}&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

Pluto is dead. It is no longer being maintained. LinuxMCE is its successor, with many more additions and refinements.  &lt;small&gt;comment added by [[User:Perspectoff|Perspectoff]] ([[User talk:Perspectoff|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Perspectoff|contribs]]) 06:04, 19 May 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;

==Notability!?!===
LinuxMCE represents the next level of integration for home automation. It performs all the X10 functionality plus multi-source TV integration and distribution, alarm management, two-way communication with the home via telephony, and with video over telephony.

:@personwhodoesn'tsigntheirposts I would also say it is significant (i mean, its bill gates house but open source!) [[User:Ms.henrick|Ms.henrick]] ([[User talk:Ms.henrick|talk]]) 16:15, 27 February 2010 (UTC)

::But there is a [[Wikipedia:ILIKE|wikipedia policy]] thats says something is not notable becuase you like it. contrary to that it is very notable and cool! [[User:Ms.henrick|Ms.henrick]] ([[User talk:Ms.henrick|talk]]) 15:44, 13 June 2010 (UTC)

==Merging with MythTV==
This should not be merged - it includes extensive [[home control]] and other functions. Plus you can't install it on top of an existing Linux setup - you have to put it in from scratch. [[User:TreveX|TreveX]]&lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:TreveX|talk]]&lt;/sup&gt; 17:44, 23 September 2007 (UTC)

I agree, MythTV is a program, this is a distribution.  A merge seems silly.  [[User:JeffBurdges|JeffBurdges]] ([[User talk:JeffBurdges|talk]]) 23:05, 22 December 2007 (UTC)

It is not exactly a distribution, since it requires the Kubuntu distribution. It is just a very big set of packages.  &lt;small&gt;—comment added by [[User:Perspectoff|Perspectoff]] ([[User talk:Perspectoff|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Perspectoff|contribs]]) 06:06, 19 May 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;

yeah its just a really big package that needs KDE (gnome won't work because of fancy effects apparantly). it is nothing like Mythtv!
[[User:Ms.henrick|Ms.henrick]] ([[User talk:Ms.henrick|talk]]) 16:16, 27 February 2010 (UTC)

== Development status ==

[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=LinuxMCE&amp;oldid=190468333 As of Feb 2008], the latest LMCE release is 0710BETA3 and this article refers to the development status as &quot;Production Ready&quot;. If the version is 0710'''BETA'''3, should the development status not be &quot;Beta&quot;?
[[User:Stuart Morrow|S. Morrow]] ([[User talk:Stuart Morrow|talk]]) 18:56, 14 February 2008 (UTC)

As of May 7, the version is LinuxMCE 0710 RC2. It is pretty sweet. &quot;Production ready&quot; is a meaningless term -- the system has been distributed on commercial systems for some time, now (such as Convergenthome and Fiire).  &lt;small&gt;— comment added by [[User:Perspectoff|Perspectoff]] ([[User talk:Perspectoff|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Perspectoff|contribs]]) 06:07, 19 May 2008 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>