<article id="36105374" title=User talk:Aanandyatringo>
	<talkpage id="36105374" title="User talk:Aanandyatringo">
== Chitrakathi - a unique tribal art-form ==

'''Chitrakathi''' – the primitive movie-makers in India
Chitrakathi, as the name suggests, is a unique tribal art-form of telling stories with the aid of pictures: '''Chitra''' meaning, Picture and '''Katha''' meaning a story. The tribe from which this art has come down as a tradition for over 20 generations is today identified by the same name – Chitrakathi tribe or caste. Chitrakathis form a minor part of several migratory tribes of India. Following the fact that Chitarkathi is in its primitive form, an approach to audio-visual communication, it holds the key to understand the human evolution in art. While it becomes a subject of great interest to artists and scientists world over, for India and Maharashtra especially, it’s simply its cultural heritage.
In this art form- '''Colours''' used in these paintings are the nature’s gift to this art form. They are prepared from Geru, Flowers and Leaves.
These '''stories''' are from the great epics of Mahabharata and Ramayana. From the set of pictures, the story teller displays each picture and tells the episode it portrays.
Chitrakathi artists use the '''term Pothi''' to refer to the set of pictures that contain 30 to 50 pages arranged in chronological order.

'''Aanandyatri foundation, Pune''' is an NGO who is trying to preserve this art form. Our aim as an organization is to propagate the declining art of Tribal community and help build a platform for its continuation. We also aim to create awareness about the uncommon artistic capacity among the common most people.

'''Activities'''- Conducting research, Digitalization of paintings and original manuscripts, and to provide correct information to the researchers of tribal arts.

'''Myths about Chitrakathi -''' 
1.Chitrakathi is just a name and it is belongs to Thakar community from Sindhudurga dist. of Maharashtra  - it is a myth. 
'''fact is'''- Chitrakathi is a tribal community and registered as ST in the list of Govt of india. 

2. Thakar community is the only successor of Chitrakathi - it is a Myth.
'''fact is'''- there are two parts of Chitrakathi. Chitra+katha (Painting+ story telling). Chitrakathi community is the only community how can draw these paintings and Thakar community plays another part and that is story telling. 

from last few years Thakar community from Sindhudurga district of Maharashtra start denying the credit of Chitrakathi Community. Even they refuse the existence of this community, when we have more than 1.5 lac chitrakathis in Maharashtra only. 

At Chitrakathi advocacy center we have Mr. Vijay Bhosale- a Chitrakathi with us. he is helping us to collect very rare Chitrakathi paintings from the community.    

Kindly add studied inputs into this. 

Regards
Dushyantkumar
Chitrakathi advocacy center 
Aanandyatri foundation, Pune
	</talkpage>
</article>