<article id="410029" title=Talk:UN peacekeeping>
	<talkpage id="410029" title="Talk:UN peacekeeping">
I found the page was not NPOV. It seemed to view peacekeeping strictly through American eyes. I made some counter
arguments but there's more to do. I am reluctant to declare an official NPOV dispute. 
[[User:Edmilne|Edmilne]] 08:59, Dec 21, 2003 (UTC)

=====

I want to add the following text, but am unclear on how to add a section to the layout:

Major-General [[Lewis Mackenzie]] (ret), a Canadian with extensive UN command experience has suggested that due to the nature of UN remuneration for peacekeeping operations, some of these more recent contributors are doing so as much for profit as any other reason. This suggestion can be logically extended to an argument that the UN should use private companies as peacekeepers. Such hypothetical companies formed by professionally trained, retired officers, from industrialized nations it is argued would be better lead, equipped, and be formed with more highly motivated solders. Furthermore, whereas the UN is loath to correct member countries, private companies would be directly accountable and their performance used to decide on future contracts.

== &quot;Issues&quot; ==

Would the Issues With Peacekeeping section be better titled &quot;Criticisms&quot; of Peacekeeping, for consistency with similar articles? -[[User:Finn-Zoltan|FZ]] 23:50, 19 Jul 2004 (UTC)
: Agreed. This article needs much more content and editing to reach NPOV, in my opinion. A list of the reasons ''why'' peacekeeping is done, and citing of a few examples of proven successes in peacekeeping operations -- might be a good start. [[User:Madmagic|Madmagic]] 17:26, Aug 31, 2004 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>