<article id="21682149" title=User talk:Gmnewlook>
	<talkpage id="21682149" title="User talk:Gmnewlook">


== February 2009 ==
Welcome to Wikipedia. Although everyone is welcome to contribute constructively to the encyclopedia, your addition of one or more external links to the page [[:Maurice Richard]] has been reverted.

Your edit [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?diff=272879109&amp;oldid=272874987 here] was reverted by an automated bot that attempts to remove [[WP:NOT#REPOSITORY|unwanted links]] and [[WP:SPAM|spam]] from Wikipedia.  The external link you added or changed is on my list of links to remove and probably shouldn't be included in Wikipedia.  The external links I reverted were matching the following [[regex|regex rule(s)]]: \byoutube\.com (links: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xfqhg9e1imq).  If the external link you inserted or changed was to a [[Wikipedia:Media|media]] file (e.g. a [[Wikipedia:Media help|sound or video]] file) on an external server, then note that linking to such files may be subject to Wikipedia's [[WP:COPYRIGHT|copyright policy]] and therefore probably should not be linked to.  Please consider using our [[Wikipedia:Upload|upload]] facility to upload a suitable media file.  Video links are also ''strongly'' deprecated by our [[WP:ELNO|guidelines for external links]], partly because they're useless to people with slow internet connections.

If you were trying to insert an [[Wikipedia:External links|external link]] that does comply with our [[Wikipedia:List of policies|policies]] and [[Wikipedia:List of guidelines|guidelines]], then please accept my creator's apologies and feel free to undo the bot's revert.  However, if the link does not comply with our policies and guidelines, but your edit included other changes to the article, feel free to make those changes again without re-adding the link.  Please read Wikipedia's [[WP:EL|external links guideline]] for more information, and consult my [[User:XLinkBot/Reversion reasons|list of frequently-reverted sites]]. For more information about me, see [[User:XLinkBot/FAQ|my FAQ page]]. Thanks! --[[User:XLinkBot|XLinkBot]] ([[User talk:XLinkBot|talk]]) 03:12, 24 February 2009 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>