<article id="9540608" title=Talk:Pixelization>
	<talkpage id="9540608" title="Talk:Pixelization">
== Google Earth Question ==

If I use [[Google Earth]] 4, there are some places that has pixelization (like the [[Netherlands]]. Why is it censored on the Google Earth Imagery? That might be a problem, right? &lt;br&gt;
'''----'''&lt;font face=&quot;Invader&quot;&gt;&lt;font color=red&gt;[[User:Invader Soap|Invader Soap]]&lt;/font color&gt;&lt;sup&gt;&lt;font color=purple&gt;[[User Talk:Invader Soap|Evil Jokes]]&lt;/font color&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;sub&gt;&lt;font color=pink&gt;[[Special:Contributions/Invader Soap|Gir's Dog]]&lt;/font color&gt;&lt;/sub&gt;&lt;font color=brown&gt;February 16&lt;sup&gt;th&lt;/sup&gt;, 2007 (UTC)&lt;/font color&gt;&lt;/font&gt;

Are you sure it has been censored, or is this just an area where Google acquired a lower resolution data set? Across the world, Google Earth has different resolutions depending on where you look. The edges between data sets show up as changes in the overall hue.[[User:Birdbrainscan|Birdbrainscan]] 03:04, 14 March 2007 (UTC)

== Wave of the Future ==

As a big fan of Hokusai's art, I'd be interested to see this modern reinterpretation. I understand if it is not available online due to copyright, but I could not find any reference to it with a moderate amount of Google searching and refining. Does anyone have a link to any info? [[User:Birdbrainscan|Birdbrainscan]] 03:06, 14 March 2007 (UTC)
:Here - [http://vorpal.us/img/waveofthefuture.jpg vorpal.us] --[[User:Hellahulla|Hellahulla]] ([[User talk:Hellahulla|talk]]) 11:25, 14 July 2009 (UTC)

I happened to hit the Wikipedia article after seeing the subtext on a -thumbnail- Randy Bush has on his webpage.  https://rip.psg.com/~randy/  If it cannot be posted online, I would probably be interested in seeing this in a gallery.  Ideally it would be nice to just to see a larger thumbnail online, to see what it's really like.

== Security ==

I think we should mention article http://dheera.net/projects/blur.php about possibility of information recovery from blurred/mosaic-ed image (note the photo of credit card used in this article). &lt;small&gt;—The preceding [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|unsigned]] comment was added by [[Special:Contributions/217.113.238.142|217.113.238.142]] ([[User talk:217.113.238.142|talk]]) 00:30, 16 March 2007 (UTC).&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- HagermanBot Auto-Unsigned --&gt;

== Japan and pixelization ==

I removed the source link that pointed to a message board. Message boards are not considered proper sources as per Wikipedia source guidelines. Secondly, the statement regarding censorship of depictions of handcuffs and children's faces is vague and not sourced. Does the law require censorship of depictions of handcuffs in fictional cop shows, for example or only in reality or news shows? Also, would a children's program have to censor the faces of children that appear on it? Do news broadcasts have to censor all depictions of children's faces? We should really be more clear on what the law requires. --[[User:Cab88|Cab88]] 04:48, 29 April 2007 (UTC)

== Question About People's Rights to Be Seen or Not Seen on Television ==


I saw a show on Dateline NBC called &quot;How to Catch a Predator&quot;.  It was a sting where child-molesters were lured into a house by children they were supposed to meet and have sex with.  Instead, they got police and a reporter.  My question is: Why were they able to show the pervert's faces on national television and what are the laws regarding showing people's images on TV.  Don't people have to sign a waiver?
:I would guess that the footage is only aired if the offender was convicted. [[User:Zeldafanjtl|Zeldafanjtl]] ([[User talk:Zeldafanjtl|talk]]) 17:44, 6 August 2009 (UTC)

== Digital swirl ==

Is the case of [[Christopher Paul Neil]] interesting in this article?  --[[User:Pilettes|Pilettes]] ([[User talk:Pilettes|talk]]) 12:40, 4 May 2011 (UTC)

== Comment from [[Special:Contributions/175.157.122.207|IP editor 175.157.122.207]] ==
Why is my reference to films being left uncensored, when you state without qualification that nudity is &quot;obscured&quot;, irrelevant you bloody idiot? I have REVERSED your change! You should say that images of nude genitalia, breasts and buttocks MAY be obscured where the person in charge of editing finds them inappropriate (eg tabloid newspapers, US network television, film posters etc.) or where their display would be illegal (eg Japanese and many Arab countries' media). &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:175.157.122.207|175.157.122.207]] ([[User talk:175.157.122.207|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/175.157.122.207|contribs]]) &lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt;

:First of all, calm down, no need to be calling people names. Secondly, the only edit I can see you made to the article (from that IP) is to add the word &quot;any&quot; to a section which has been copyedited since. I don't see what that edit has to do with the rest of your comment. Maybe that's not the edit you mean, and you were using a different IP or username, but if so, I can't see which edit you are referring to. If you want to include something specific, please clarify what it is, and we can discuss it. &lt;span style=&quot;font-family:Arial;font-weight:bold;color:#000;&quot;&gt;[[User:Begoon|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#0645AD;&quot;&gt;Begoon&lt;/span&gt;]]&amp;thinsp;[[User talk:Begoon|&lt;span style=&quot;color:gray;&quot;&gt;&lt;sup&gt;talk&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;/span&gt;]]&lt;/span&gt; 06:35, 1 January 2012 (UTC)

:Ok - I assume that the recent edit changing &quot;a&quot; to &quot;any&quot; was you, since the IP seems to correspond. I don't see any problem with that edit, implying, as it does, that there are multiple &quot;pixelization&quot; techniques, which there are. Maybe there's a better way to word it, but it seems fine to me until someone does that rewording. Now - was there something else we need to address in your first post - or is that all that you were referring to? Thanks. &lt;span style=&quot;font-family:Arial;font-weight:bold;color:#000;&quot;&gt;[[User:Begoon|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#0645AD;&quot;&gt;Begoon&lt;/span&gt;]]&amp;thinsp;[[User talk:Begoon|&lt;span style=&quot;color:gray;&quot;&gt;&lt;sup&gt;talk&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;/span&gt;]]&lt;/span&gt; 07:47, 1 January 2012 (UTC)

== Provenance of Censor Bars ==

Censor bars (or boxes, or redaction swaths) predate pixelization and digital media itself by many decades. Inasmuch they were in common use both for sensitive texts and sensitive photographs back in the day, they can hardly have been said to have supplanted the digital artifact.  That said, they were ironically and widely used in the [[Protests against SOPA and PIPA]] as a graphic device.  [[User:Kencf0618|kencf0618]] ([[User talk:Kencf0618|talk]]) 22:47, 21 January 2012 (UTC)

== &quot;Pixelize&quot; vs. &quot;pixelate&quot; ==

Pixelize is not a word. [http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/pixelate Pixelate] is. — '''[[User:CAWylie|&lt;span style=&quot;font-family:Times New Roman;&quot;&gt;Wylie&lt;/span&gt;]][[User talk:CAWylie|&lt;span style=&quot;font-family:Times New Roman;&quot;&gt;pedia&lt;/span&gt;]]''' 05:52, 1 July 2015 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>