<article id="23573960" title=Talk:Iceland–South Korea relations>
	<talkpage id="23573960" title="Talk:Iceland–South Korea relations">
{{WikiProject Korea|class=start|importance=}}
{{WikiProject Iceland |class=start|importance=}}

==Changes to article==
This article has changed a lot since when it was first moved into article space [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Iceland-South_Korea_relations&amp;diff=301476469&amp;oldid=301471608 first version]. If anyone wants to return it to its former glory they have my full support! One person's trivia is another person's notability. Or something. [[User:ChildofMidnight|ChildofMidnight]] ([[User talk:ChildofMidnight|talk]]) 21:34, 11 July 2009 (UTC)
*I urge editors not to look at [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Iceland-South_Korea_relations&amp;diff=301476469&amp;oldid=301471608 first version], which was frivolous. Wikipedia is serious. [[User:Aymatth2|Aymatth2]] ([[User talk:Aymatth2|talk]]) 23:47, 11 July 2009 (UTC)
::Are you suggesting pickled foods aren't serious?  Vikings aren't serious?  This is a shocking insult to some of the most important cultural values that these two proud nations share, and I think it reflects a totally unwarranted ethnocentrism and elitist viewpoint. I'm hurt and confused. So I'm going to go drink at the bars. If they have any pickled herring I will order some. If on the other hand it is a subtle encouragement to look at the article in all its former glory by telling people not to, then I support it fully.[[User:ChildofMidnight|ChildofMidnight]] ([[User talk:ChildofMidnight|talk]]) 00:07, 12 July 2009 (UTC)
*I have to totally disagree with the comments above. [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Iceland-South_Korea_relations&amp;diff=301476469&amp;oldid=301471608 first version] is highly misleading. Check the map: Iceland, Ghana and South Korea are totally different places. O.k. they all eat fish. But do Koreans eat Spaghetti with smoked salmon? I think not. [[User:Aymatth2|Aymatth2]] ([[User talk:Aymatth2|talk]]) 00:54, 12 July 2009 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>