<article id="3394710" title=Talk:Op. cit.>
	<talkpage id="3394710" title="Talk:Op. cit.">
{{WikiProject France|class=Start|importance=Low}}

== opus citatum/opere citatum ==
User [[User:David618|David618]] changed ''opus citatum'' to ''opere citatum'', but to my knowledge ''opere citatum'' does not mean &quot;the work cited&quot; but rather &quot;in the work cited&quot;. Perhaps the intro should read
:'''Op cit''' ([[Latin]], short for ''opus citatum'', meaning &quot;the work cited&quot;, or ''opere citatum'', meaning &quot;in the work cited&quot;) is the term&amp;nbsp;&amp;hellip;
Since I am not absolutely certain about the latin, I didn't want to modify the actual article myself. &amp;ndash;[[User:Pjacklam|Peter J. Acklam]] 09:45, 12 December 2005 (UTC)
::I changed the ethymology. Actually, opus, operis is a neuter noun of the third declension, so ''opus citatum'' is the right nominative case, meaning &quot;the work cited&quot; while ''opere citato'' is the correct ablative case and therefore means ''in the cited work'' or ''from the cited work''.[[User:Lancelot Du Lac|Lancelot Du Lac]] 20:31, 9 February 2006 (UTC)

--
Butcher's (2006) lists it in the glossary (pp532) as &quot;op. cit. – abbreviation of opere citato, ‘in the work cited’.&quot; I'd imagine Cambridge know what they're talking about....
--




Is it worth noting that many modern styles omit this annotation?  In philosophy, at least, it is common for subsequent (but not immediately following, so not ''Ibid'') citations of the same work to simply be e.g. &quot;Nagel, 55&quot;, with the fact that this means the previously-cited Nagel reference implied. --[[User:Delirium|Delirium]] 02:06, 23 February 2006 (UTC)

==MediaWiki==

Do we have any software support for this? I'm quoting extensively from the same book, but I want to give page references. Do I have to repeat the title every time? Or can the MediaWiki software say ''op cit.'' for me? --[[User:Ed Poor|Uncle Ed]] ([[User talk:Ed Poor|talk]]) 19:15, 29 October 2010 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>