<article id="10162626" title=Talk:Bobby Johnstone>
	<talkpage id="10162626" title="Talk:Bobby Johnstone">
{{WikiProject Biography|class=start|sports-priority=Low|sports-work-group=yes|listas=Johnstone, Bobby|living=no}} 
{{WikiProject Football|class=Start|importance=mid|england=yes|Scotland=High}}

== Non free image ==

I have removed the non-free image from this article per [[WP:NFCC#8]] as the image is not significant enough to qualify for inclusion. Note that wikipedias policy on non-free content is far more strict than the legal term [[fair use]]. [[User:Rettetast|Rettetast]] ([[User talk:Rettetast|talk]]) 16:32, 16 February 2010 (UTC)

:I have also read [[WP:NFCC#8]] and believe that the image is 'significant' enough to qualify for inclusion. I have therefore added the image to the article. It is significant in the sense that it allows readers of the article a chance to see what Bobby Johnstone, one of Manchester City's greatest ever players, looked like.  If the image were to be deleted it would mean that all of the players who comprise the current Manchester City squad would have an image on their Wikipedia page, yet one of the club's greatest ever players did not. Such a contemporary bias only harms Wikipedia's status as a useful encyclopedia. In order to prevent contemporary bias an effort should be made to enhance the pages of all former great football players by adding further information and images. If this is disputed please explain why the image is not significant. [[User:Gingerdave|Gingerdave]] ([[User talk:Gingerdave|talk]]) 20:50, 16 February 2010 (GMT)
::I don't see how one still image &quot;significantly&quot; increases the reader's understanding of the subject. [[User:Jmorrison230582|Jmorrison230582]] ([[User talk:Jmorrison230582|talk]]) 22:45, 16 February 2010 (UTC)
:::I have added the image again as i maintain my opinion that it is significant. I believe that i have adequately explained my opinion above. I note that there is a contrary opinion that the image is not significant. Please explain the reasons for such an opinion before proceeding to remove the image from the article.[[User:Gingerdave|Gingerdave]] ([[User talk:Gingerdave|talk]]) 8:28, 17 February 2010 (GMT)
:::: I note that rather than respond to my above comment [[User:Jmorrison230582|Jmorrison230582]] ([[User talk:Jmorrison230582|talk]] has just removed the image. Is this website to be governed by whim rather than reason? I have re-added the image, again, as i believe that it enhances the article. If you disagree i await an explanation before you delete my legitimate contribution.[[User:Gingerdave|Gingerdave]] ([[User talk:Gingerdave|talk]]) 13:05, 17 February 2010 (GMT)
	</talkpage>
</article>