<article id="12298587" title=Talk:Four Books and Five Classics>
	<talkpage id="12298587" title="Talk:Four Books and Five Classics">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WPCHINA|class=C|importance=mid}}
{{WikiProject East Asia|class=C|importance=mid}}
{{WikiProject Philosophy|importance=high|class=C|eastern=yes|ancient=yes}}
{{WikiProject Literature|class=C}}
{{WikiProject Books|class=C}}
}}


== I Agree ==

Yes, I believe that the Four Books articleshould be merged with the Five Classics article.  After all, they are a set of related Chinese classics.
[[User:Sungrad|Sungrad]] ([[User talk:Sungrad|talk]]) 23:57, 14 December 2008 (UTC)

I agree with Sungrad. Such a merger would simplify things.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/76.102.49.119|76.102.49.119]] ([[User talk:76.102.49.119|talk]]) 08:48, 5 May 2009 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Proposed merge ==

I propose that this article be merged with [[Thirteen Classics]] to form an article called &quot;Confucian classics&quot;, giving a narrative with sections &quot;Five Classics&quot;, &quot;Thirteen Classics&quot; and &quot;Four Books&quot;.  This would be different from [[Chinese classics]], which also includes non-Confucian works.  [[User talk:Kanguole|Kanguole]] 18:31, 2 March 2012 (UTC)
:The phrase &quot;Four Books and Five Classics&quot; is very recognizable within Chinese literature, and it is a well-known canon.  Whereas I think the term &quot;Confucian classics is too broad, and the article [[Chinese classics]] already pertains to this idea.--[[User:Sevilledade|Sevilledade]] ([[User talk:Sevilledade|talk]]) 12:11, 11 May 2012 (UTC)
::The Four Books and Five Classics are indeed well-known canons, as is the [[Thirteen Classics]], which were an expansion from the Five Classics and from which the Four Books were selected.  I'm saying that they're aspects of the same topic, and that to cover that topic properly one would want to discuss the evolution of this canon from the Six Classics, then the Five Classics, gradually expanded through to the [[Kaicheng Stone Classics]] and the Thirteen Classics, followed by Zhu Xi's selection of the Four Books.  As I said above, [[Chinese classics]] is broader, also including non-Confucian works.  [[User talk:Kanguole|Kanguole]] 15:05, 11 May 2012 (UTC)


== Drop reference to editing by Confucius ==
The line reading &quot;These books, or parts of them, were either commented, compiled, or edited by Confucius himself&quot; should be dropped.  This tradition is not accepted by modern scholars.  See, for example, Michael Nylan, The Five &quot;Confucian&quot; Classics (New Haven: Yale University Press, 2001).
~entenman

== please add German link ==

http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/F%C3%BCnf_Klassiker  &lt;small class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—&amp;nbsp;Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/82.153.172.89|82.153.172.89]] ([[User talk:82.153.172.89|talk]]) 17:37, 4 May 2015 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>