<article id="25484221" title=Talk:List of science fiction films of the 2010s>
	<talkpage id="25484221" title="Talk:List of science fiction films of the 2010s">
{{Film|class=List}}
{{Science Fiction Project|class=list}}

==Initial content==
The initial content for this page was forked from [[List of science fiction films: 2000s]] per [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=List_of_science_fiction_films%3A_2000s&amp;action=historysubmit&amp;diff=332581317&amp;oldid=332361376 this edit] on 12/18/2009.&amp;mdash;[[User:RJHall|RJH]] ([[User_talk:RJHall|''talk'']]) 00:02, 19 December 2009 (UTC)

== Future films ==

There's a couple of upcoming films that I'm not sure will meet the criteria for this page, so I'm noting them here:
* &lt;s&gt;[[Universal Soldier: Regeneration]], US release on DVD, February 2, 2010.&lt;/s&gt;
** This film was released theatrically in some parts of the world, so I added it in.&amp;mdash;[[User:RJHall|RJH]] ([[User_talk:RJHall|''talk'']])
* [[Love (2010 film)]], listed as a free film release by a band, February 14, 2010.
[[User:RJHall|RJH]] ([[User_talk:RJHall|''talk'']]) 22:52, 19 January 2010 (UTC)

==Horror==
Horror films should be included in this list. Horror != Sci Fi!!  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/122.61.158.205|122.61.158.205]] ([[User talk:122.61.158.205|talk]]) 03:30, 28 May 2011 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
: It appears you're contradicting yourself. I think horror films should be included if they contain significant science fiction elements, but horror films that rely on a supernatural theme (that can not be explained through a science fiction element) should not be added.&amp;mdash;[[User:RJHall|RJH]] ([[User_talk:RJHall|''talk'']])

== Non-notable addition ==

I was unable to establish notability of the following short film, so I am relocating the entry here:
:''[[The Machine (film)|The Machine]]''; Directory [[Michael C. Poole]]; Cast: [[Eren Yar]], [[Danny Morris]], [[Clarissa Thibeaux]]; location: USA; sub-genre: Drama short &lt;!-- {{List fact|date=May 2011}} --&gt;
Regards, [[User:RJHall|RJH]] ([[User_talk:RJHall|''talk'']]) 14:13, 12 June 2011 (UTC)

== IsThor sci-fi ==

I haven't seen the film. Does Thor have sufficient sci-fi elements to qualify for this list? Thanks. Regards, [[User:RJHall|RJH]] ([[User_talk:RJHall|''talk'']]) 17:22, 2 August 2011 (UTC)
:This page is to discuss science fiction, not &quot;sci-fi&quot;. That said: I would say that yes, the superficialities of the film ''Thor'' and its sequels definitely put it under the loose rubric of science fiction film, rather than fantasy, although (as with most &quot;science fiction&quot; films), the underlying science is pathetically unsound. --[[User:Orangemike|&lt;font color=&quot;darkorange&quot;&gt;Orange Mike&lt;/font&gt;]] &amp;#x007C; [[User talk:Orangemike|&lt;font color=&quot;orange&quot;&gt;Talk&lt;/font&gt;]] 20:22, 17 September 2013 (UTC)

== References ==
The references are wrong. Can someone fix it? Thank you. --[[Special:Contributions/79.155.230.34|79.155.230.34]] ([[User talk:79.155.230.34|talk]]) 19:54, 17 September 2013 (UTC)
:¿No? --[[Special:Contributions/81.47.192.236|81.47.192.236]] ([[User talk:81.47.192.236|talk]]) 13:44, 30 September 2013 (UTC)

== Blade Runner sequel ==

Any reason why ''BR2'' isn't listed yet, not enough reliable sources?

[[User:Eporediese|Eporediese]] ([[User talk:Eporediese|talk]]) 07:08, 8 August 2015 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>