<article id="25966905" title=User talk:24.18.8.121>
	<talkpage id="25966905" title="User talk:24.18.8.121">


== Welcome ==

{| align=&quot;center&quot; class=&quot;notice noprint&quot; style=&quot;background: lightyellow; border: 1px solid #aaa; padding: 0.5em; margin: 0.5em auto;&quot;
|-
| valign=&quot;top&quot; style=&quot;padding: 0.1em&quot; |
| style=&quot;padding: 0.1em&quot; | 

Hello, and '''''[[Wikipedia:Welcome, newcomers|welcome]] to Wikipedia!'''''

Thank you for [[Special:Contributions/{{PAGENAME}}|your contributions]].  I hope you like it here and decide to stay.  

Someone using this [[IP address]] has made unhelpful edits{{#if:Valentine's Day|&amp;nbsp;to the page [[:Valentine's Day]]|}}, which have been [[Help:Revert|reverted]].  If you did this, in the future please try to contribute in a more constructive manner.  If you did not do this, you may wish to consider &lt;span class=&quot;plainlinks&quot;&gt;[{{fullurl:Special:Userlogin|type=signup&amp;returnto=Main_Page}} getting a username]&lt;/span&gt; to avoid confusion with other editors.

You don't have to [[Special:Userlogin|log in]] to read or edit articles on Wikipedia, but creating an account is quick, free and non-intrusive, requires no personal information, and has many [[Wikipedia:Why create an account?|benefits]].  Without a username, your [[IP address]] is used to identify you.

If you need help, see:
*[[Help:Contents|Help contents]] - the main help page.
*[[Wikipedia:Quick guide|Quick guide]] - a &quot;cheatsheet&quot; listing the main editing commands.

Here are a few more good links for newcomers:
*[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]]
*[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
*[[Wikipedia:Article development|How to write a great article]]
*[[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]]
*[[Wikipedia:Accessibility|Accessibility]]

I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! Please [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|sign your name]] on talk pages using four (~&amp;#126;~~); this will automatically produce your name and timestamp. If you need help, check out [[Wikipedia:Questions]], ask me on {{#if:Minimac94|[[User talk:Minimac94{{!}}my talk page]]|my talk page}}, or place &lt;code&gt;{&amp;#123;helpme}}&lt;/code&gt; on your talk page and someone will show up shortly to answer your questions. 

Again, welcome! &lt;!-- Template:Welcome-anon-vandal --&gt; [[User:Minimac94|&lt;font color=&quot;#002BB8&quot;&gt;Minima&lt;/font&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/Minimac94|&lt;font color=&quot;#002BB8&quot;&gt;c&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;font color=&quot;#002BB8&quot;&gt;94&lt;/font&gt; ([[User talk:Minimac94|&lt;font color=&quot;#002BB8&quot;&gt;talk&lt;/font&gt;]]) 11:01, 27 January 2010 (UTC)
|}
	</talkpage>
</article>