<article id="400578" title=Talk:Document-based question>
	<talkpage id="400578" title="Talk:Document-based question">
== The beginning ==

I might start with placing some links to outside sites. There's already quite a bit of material on the Internet, but there are [[copyright]] problems with using it directly - [[User:Pingveno|Pingveno]] 00:04, 14 Dec 2003 (UTC)


You might want to read http://www.oswego.org/staff/tcaswell/wg/dbq.htm -- [[User:The Anome|The Anome]] 00:19, 14 Dec 2003 (UTC)

:Thanks for the info. I just added that to the external links. - [[User:Pingveno|Pingveno]] 00:34, 14 Dec 2003 (UTC)

==The plan:==

#Get links to help in the mean time
#Get a (better) definition. See: Document Based Question
#Obtain a DBQ for an example, including:
##The primary history sources
##Any notes taken on the history
##The DBQ essay itself
#Break the pieces of the DBQ up, explaining step by step how everything is done

I'm going to also place a redirect at Document Based Query, and maybe move the article for [[Document Based Question]] into the How to. - [[User:Pingveno|Pingveno]] 02:26, 14 Dec 2003 (UTC)

: Should be the other way around: keep the article at Document Based Question, move any &quot;how to&quot; information into it. That's more in line with our naming conventions. [[User:MyRedDice|Martin]] 13:44, 28 Mar 2004 (UTC)

==VfD==

'''''[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/wiki.phtml?title=MediaWiki:VfD-How_to_write_a_DBQ&amp;action=edit To add to this deletion debate, click here]'''''

*Contains nothing but requests for contributions and external links.  [[User:RickK|RickK]] | [[User talk:RickK|Talk]] 06:41, 28 Mar 2004 (UTC)
*Redirect to Document Based Question; links have been moved there. [[User:Lupin|Lupin]] 09:36, 28 Mar 2004 (UTC)
*Redirect -- [[User:Cyrius|Cyrius]] | [[User talk:Cyrius|Talk]] 19:11, Mar 28, 2004 (UTC)

What the hell is a document-based peninsula dragon? Is that vandalism or something I'm not seeing?  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/69.253.102.217|69.253.102.217]] ([[User talk:69.253.102.217|talk]]) 02:19, 10 May 2012 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>