<article id="15093412" title=Talk:Tom Mintier>
	<talkpage id="15093412" title="Talk:Tom Mintier">
{{WikiProject Biography
|living=yes
|class=stub
|auto=yes
|listas=Mintier, Tom
}}
{{WikiProject Journalism|class=Stub|importance=}}

== Link that lists bio Comment ==

Dear fellow editors,

This link at http://www.brandnow.asia/about-new.html lists Tom Mintier's education and other bio facts but it is a PR firm, named ''Brand Now''. So do not trust the information, unless you go to the source, such as the University of Louisville, school of journalism, and confirm the honors award. But, it is a good list to start with and provides direction. [[User:Geraldshields11|Geraldshields11]] ([[User talk:Geraldshields11|talk]]) 17:35, 28 January 2015 (UTC)

Ok, a better list of his bio is at this link at http://www.amata.com/Japan/publication_detail.php?view=previous&amp;id=70 and is well written. However, I could not use third-party sources to verify. Also, AMATA is a PR firm and they are reporting that Tom Mintier is now a PR person with the firm. [[User:Geraldshields11|Geraldshields11]] ([[User talk:Geraldshields11|talk]]) 17:59, 28 January 2015 (UTC)

== work in Thialand Comment ==

Dear fellow editors,

I am finding second-party sources about Tom Mintier's work in Thialand. Generally, the sources are saying the author/source appeared on Mintier's show in Thialand or was interviewed by Mintier in Thialand. Please help with a link to a third-party source. [[User:Geraldshields11|Geraldshields11]] ([[User talk:Geraldshields11|talk]]) 17:42, 28 January 2015 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>