<article id="45000864" title=Talk:Mohammad Rizwan (cricketer)>
	<talkpage id="45000864" title="Talk:Mohammad Rizwan (cricketer)">
{{WikiProject Biography
|living=yes
|class=stub
|sports-work-group=yes
|sports-priority=low
|listas=Mohammad Rizwan}}
{{WikiProject Cricket|class=stub|importance=low}}
I seriously doubt knowledge of the author of this article. He attempts to accommodate every reknown person of the area to Gujjar. Please remove the article.  &lt;small class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—&amp;nbsp;Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/39.33.101.202|39.33.101.202]] ([[User talk:39.33.101.202|talk]]) 12:45, 4 August 2015 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

About the Author:

He is a racist and has knowledge but to show everyone as Gujjar. He is requested not to do it anymore as there is a very small community of Gujjars in KPK. They hardly play any sport. Their main source of income is their dairy forms and buying selling catles. Very few of them have shifted to cities but they follow their traditions. They can be distinguished from the original inhabitants due to there dark color.  &lt;small class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—&amp;nbsp;Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/39.33.101.202|39.33.101.202]] ([[User talk:39.33.101.202|talk]]) 12:49, 4 August 2015 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>