<article id="10005499" title=Talk:Trichoptilosis>
	<talkpage id="10005499" title="Talk:Trichoptilosis">
{{WPMED|class=Stub|importance=Low}}
{{WikiProject Fashion|class=Stub|importance=}}
{{reqphoto|medical subjects}}


== trichorrhexis nodosa is not the same as bamboo hair ==
Bamboo hair is also called trichorhexis invaginata, and is caused by genetic conditions. Trchorrhexis nodosa is a completely different hair shaft disorder, usually caused by hair trauma from hair care practices (dyes, heat, etc) and only very rarely caused by genetic conditions. 


==Surely==
Surely it's not only caused by hair-damaging things of the type mentioned here. I've got em and I don't do any of that. Hell I've got em in my beard! &lt;small&gt;—The preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment was added by [[User:64.122.208.51|64.122.208.51]] ([[User talk:64.122.208.51|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/64.122.208.51|contribs]]) 13:57, 27 March 2007  (UTC-7)&lt;/small&gt;

--I completely agree.  I don't brush my hair, color, or perm it.  Splitting hairs is a natural occurance. &lt;small&gt;—The preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment was added by [[User:208.251.97.90|208.251.97.90]] ([[User talk:208.251.97.90|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/208.251.97.90|contribs]]) 15:36, 20 April 2007  (UTC-7)&lt;/small&gt;

I dunno. My parents tell me I need to use more conditioner to help prevent split ends. It might have something to do with having dry hair. [[User:Kryssel|Kryssel]] 23:13, 4 June 2007 (UTC)

--same here, i don't do any of the damaging things and have tried lots of conditioners but have countless split ends. has anyone considered/know if [[brazilian  hair straightening]] aka escova progressiva aka keratin hair treatment would help prevent split ends? 
&quot;The smaller keratin molecules penetrate the hair cortex improving and repairing the quality of the hair from the inside. The added strength, elasticity and moisture result in the smooth, soft, shiny and straightened effect. The larger molecules coat the hair cuticle and take the environmental insults such as UV rays, smog, and smoke for your hair on the outside. Further damage to the hair shaft is prevented.&quot;
that's from a website that sells the stuff though so i don't know if it's reliable or just hype.
[[User:Samiam1611|Samiam1611]] ([[User talk:Samiam1611|talk]]) 05:34, 5 November 2009 (UTC)

==This article may need a complete rewrite==
This article needs to be expanded and rewritten. The following sections could be included:
*'''Background''': With relevant discussion on the structure of hair and accompanying diagram(s), the different types of hair that is effected, ie [[Lanugo]], [[Vellus hair]], [[Terminal hair]]. And the physical changes and or characteristics of a split end hair, with photo or diagram of a split end (electron microscope image would be excellent).
*'''Causes''': eg Physical stress, (heat, mechanical, chemical); Diet; Dehydration; lack of sleep; etc
*'''Types''': eg split at the ends, middle, entire length, frayed ends, etc
*'''Outcomes / effects''': The consequences of split ends if left untreated, eg baldness, 
*'''Treatment / Prevention''': eg Cutting the hairs, reduction of physical stress, change of diet etc.[[User:Drinkbeerinpubs|Drinkbeerinpubs]] 07:05, 23 July 2007 (UTC)

Hmm... Most split ends of hair occour in the hair on top of your head, but it IS possible in any type of hair. Most people claim it's caused by dry conditions (heat, for example), but I need to find references. And I've got tons of split ends - not a thing to be proud of - so I can take a picture of one if you would like. However, I do not own a microscope, but the split ends are extreme - you would be able to see some in a picture. One thing - I can't get this picture anytime soon. I'm too busy. [[User:Dragana666|Dragana666]] ([[User talk:Dragana666|talk]]) 15:31, 13 May 2008 (UTC)

== Glass Hair cutting tool section is an advertisement ==

The Glass Hair cutting tool section is an advertisement and should be deleted. -- [[User:Dougher|Dougher]] ([[User talk:Dougher|talk]]) 20:21, 27 October 2008 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>