<article id="22504412" title=Talk:Nodal admittance matrix>
	<talkpage id="22504412" title="Talk:Nodal admittance matrix">
{{WikiProject Energy|class=|importance=}}
==Merge this article with [[Admittance parameters]]?==
It has been proposed that ''[[Nodal admittance matrix]]'' be merged with ''[[Admittance parameters]]''.
:*'''oppose''' as these appear to refer to different entities:
::*The ''nodal admittance matrix'' in the context of power engineering &lt;s&gt;is not clearly defined by this page, but&lt;/s&gt;[now it is [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Nodal_admittance_matrix&amp;diff=469109588&amp;oldid=415658649] ] seems to coincide with my understanding of this term in network theory - that is, it's the coefficients of the equations to be solved in [[nodal analysis]]. So [[Kirchhoff's current law]] is 0&amp;nbsp;=&amp;nbsp;''YV'' where ''Y'' is the nodal admittance matrix and ''V'' is a vector of voltages, being the voltage of each circuit node with respect to a common ground.
::*The ''matrix of admittance parameters'' relates port currents and port voltages in a black-box representation of a network (whose internal nodes are not considered). Each port consists of a pair of terminals carrying equal and opposite currents into and out of the box. There is no concept of a common ground.
::Of course, both are square matrices of admittances. --[[User:Catslash|catslash]] ([[User talk:Catslash|talk]]) 23:09, 14 December 2011 (UTC)
:'''oppose'''  I agree.  The nodal admittance matrix is an N x N matrix used in general [[circuit analysis]] of electronic circuits (networks).  The [[admittance parameters]] are a 2 x 2 matrix used with the [[two-port network]] model.  They're related, but not enough to merge into the same article --&lt;font color=&quot;blue&quot;&gt;[[User:Chetvorno|Chetvorno]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;sup&gt;''&lt;small&gt;[[User talk:Chetvorno|&lt;font color=&quot;Purple&quot;&gt;TALK&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;/small&gt;''&lt;/sup&gt; 01:16, 3 April 2012 (UTC)
The (albeit meagre) response to this proposal over the last 18 months has been entirely negative. I shall therefore remove the merge templates. --[[User:Catslash|catslash]] ([[User talk:Catslash|talk]]) 23:59, 28 September 2012 (UTC)

==Editing the &quot;Context&quot; Section==
I thought the &quot;Context&quot; Section of the article was very brief and could use some elaboration in order to make the purpose and origins of the admittance matrix more clear to readers without much background in electrical engineering. I expanded on why the admittance matrix is a useful tool and why computers are needed to solve these systems, as well as where the principles used to construct the admittance matrix come from, to hopefully give readers a better understanding of the concept.

[[User:S.ham2015|S.ham2015]] ([[User talk:S.ham2015|talk]]) 16:51, 25 November 2013 (UTC)

==Construction of the Admittance Matrix in the &quot;Design&quot; Section==
Using the subscript &lt;math&gt;i&lt;/math&gt; in the summation &lt;math&gt;\sum_{i \neq j} y_{ij}&lt;/math&gt; in the case where &lt;math&gt;i = j&lt;/math&gt; is confusing, as the variable &lt;math&gt;i&lt;/math&gt; is also used in the index of &lt;math&gt;Y_{ij}&lt;/math&gt;. Replacing &lt;math&gt;i&lt;/math&gt; in the summation with another variable may be helpful. For instance

&lt;math&gt;Y_{ij} = \begin{cases}
  y_{ii} + \sum_{k \neq i} {y_{ik}}, &amp; \mbox{if } i = j \\
  -y_{ij},  &amp; \mbox{if } i \neq j.
\end{cases}
&lt;/math&gt;

&lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—&amp;nbsp;Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Gkaf|Gkaf]] ([[User talk:Gkaf|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Gkaf|contribs]]) 21:37, 24 February 2015 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;[[User:Gkaf|Gkaf]] ([[User talk:Gkaf|talk]]) 21:51, 24 February 2015 (UTC)

:Yes, it's clearer if the [[bound variable]] of the summation is distinct from the matrix row-number. I have changed it, but please [[WP:BOLD|be bold]] and do it yourself next time (also please [[WP:SIGN|sign]] your posts on talk pages by typing four tildes &lt;nowiki&gt;~~~~&lt;/nowiki&gt; or by pressing the signature button on the edit box tool bar).

:The parameter &lt;math&gt;y_{ii}&lt;/math&gt; is also confusingly named; would &lt;math&gt;y_{i0}&lt;/math&gt; or &lt;math&gt;y_{i \, \mathrm{ground}}&lt;/math&gt; be better? --[[User:Catslash|catslash]] ([[User talk:Catslash|talk]]) 00:06, 26 February 2015 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>