<article id="3914212" title=User talk:69.142.227.186>
	<talkpage id="3914212" title="User talk:69.142.227.186">
==Welcome==

Hello, and [[Wikipedia:Welcome, newcomers|welcome]] to Wikipedia! Thank you for your contributions. I hope you like the place and decide to stay. Here are a few good links for newcomers:
*[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]]
*[[Help:Contents|Help pages]]
*[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to write a great article|How to write a great article]]
*[[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]]

Here are some other hints and tips:

*I would recommend that you get a username.  You don't have to [[Special:Userlogin|log in]] to read or edit articles on Wikipedia, but creating an account is quick, free and non-intrusive, requires no personal information, and there are many [[Wikipedia:Why create an account?|benefits of having a username]].  (If you edit without a username, your [[IP address]] is used to identify you instead.)

*When using [[Wikipedia:talk pages|talk pages]], please [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|sign your name]] at the end of your messages by typing four tildes (~&amp;#126;~~). This will automatically produce your username (or IP address) and the date.

If you have any questions, check out [[Wikipedia:Where to ask a question]], ask me on {{#if:my talk page|[[user talk:my talk page|my talk page]]|my Talk page}}, or type '''&lt;nowiki&gt; {{helpme}} &lt;/nowiki&gt;''' on this talk page and a user will help you as soon as possible. I will answer your questions as far as I can.  Again, welcome!

Thank you again for contributing to Wikipedia.  I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]. [[User:Where|Where]] [[User talk:Where|(talk)]] 00:08, 1 February 2006 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>