<article id="237198" title=Talk:Goethite>
	<talkpage id="237198" title="Talk:Goethite">
{{WikiProject Geology|class=C|importance=low}}
{{WikiProject Rocks and minerals|class=C|importance=mid}}

== Hardness ==
Hardness in which unit? 21:31, 30 May 2003 [[User:JidGom|JidGom]]
:[[Mohs scale of mineral hardness]] --[[User:Chris.urs-o|Chris.urs-o]] ([[User talk:Chris.urs-o|talk]]) 09:07, 4 May 2011 (UTC)

== This article liked to by a NASA news website ==

The Astronomy Picture of the Day (APOD) website article for 15 Dec. 2004 featuring a photograph from the Mars Spirit Rover included a link to this Wikipedia article. It can be found here: [http://antwrp.gsfc.nasa.gov/apod/ap041215.html] - [[User:Fire Star|Fire Star]] 06:46, 17 Dec 2004 (UTC)

== Goethite and lepidocrocite nomenclature ==

Originally, the names lepidocrocite (now gamma-FeOOH) and goethite (now alpha-FeOOH) were switched from the current usage. This has caused me great confusion in the past; I am sure I am not the only one. It would be good if someone with more knowledge of the history of that switch than I could put a mention of that historical usage into this article, as well as the lepidocrocite article. [[User:SarahLawrence Scott|SarahLawrence Scott]] ([[User talk:SarahLawrence Scott|talk]]) 20:22, 7 March 2009 (UTC)

== Iron content ==

I can see that there all authors have different types of iron content for Goethite, Magnetite, Hematite and Siderite.
Do anyone know about any international classification standards on the different types? Or do anyone know about a book that has stated what the most common iron content is for the different types? [[User:Krosgaard|Krosgaard]] ([[User talk:Krosgaard|talk]]) 07:23, 24 June 2010 (UTC)

==Type locality==
Changed the &quot;first described...&quot; from Minnesota to Germany per Mindat.org and others. The Webmineral site says Minnesota, but then defers to Mindat location data ... seems an error perchance. Plus the Mesabi Range was rather unknown in 1806. [[User:Vsmith|Vsmith]] ([[User talk:Vsmith|talk]]) 03:00, 4 May 2011 (UTC)
:Addenda, the Webmin site simply states ''Locality: Mesabi district, Minnesota, USA. Link to MinDat.org Location Data.'' and doesn't say &quot;first described...&quot;. So seems too much was read into that (error in reading), and yes it does occur in the Mesabi iron ores. [[User:Vsmith|Vsmith]] ([[User talk:Vsmith|talk]]) 03:27, 4 May 2011 (UTC)
:Well duh ... just took a scan of the article history and found the party who made that ''reading error'', 'twas yours truly back in Feb 06 ... Thanks to [[User:Dankarl]] for asking about this on a talk page on my watchlist! Sorry 'bout that folks ... [[User:Vsmith|Vsmith]] ([[User talk:Vsmith|talk]]) 03:40, 4 May 2011 (UTC)

== Iridensence ==

I think the article should note and have an image of geothite's extreme iridescence. None of the current pictures really show samples with this properity, but those that do have a very large amount of it, some to the same level as peacock or, or even more so, like bismuth. [[Special:Contributions/69.132.69.87|69.132.69.87]] ([[User talk:69.132.69.87|talk]]) 19:55, 16 December 2011 (UTC)

== Limpet teeth ==

Should the following article prove more than spurious pop-sci, perhaps it should be mentioned? http://www.sciencealert.com/scientists-discover-the-strongest-known-natural-material-in-the-world [[User:Ernest Ruger|Ernest Ruger]] ([[User talk:Ernest Ruger|talk]]) 22:31, 19 February 2015 (UTC)
:Look again - at the end of the ''Prevalence'' section. [[User:Vsmith|Vsmith]] ([[User talk:Vsmith|talk]]) 04:08, 20 February 2015 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>