<article id="13746455" title=Talk:Choco Pie>
	<talkpage id="36111778" title="Talk:Choco Pie/Archive 1">
{{talkarchivenav}}





==Japanese version==
There's a choco pie made in Japan (well, at least you can buy it in Japan) by Lotte, which is different from the Korean versions that I've bought in the US (I never eaten a choco pie from Korea). The Japanese version is a &quot;chocolate coated vanilla cream sandwich pie&quot; — it doesnt have marshmallow in it, but it does have brandy in it. Subjectively, I like it better than the Korean choco pie. &amp;ndash; [[User:Ish_ishwar|ishwar]]&amp;nbsp;[[User_talk:Ish_ishwar|&lt;small&gt;(speak)&lt;/small&gt;]] 20:25, 8 March 2008 (UTC)

:Do they call it &quot;Choco Pie&quot;? Isn't that name a trademark of the Orion company? [[User:Badagnani|Badagnani]]([[User talk:Badagnani|talk]]) 20:32, 8 March 2008 (UTC)

:: Yes, except there're no spaces and all caps and there's additionally the name in Japanese underneath: CHOCOPIE チョコパイ. Incidentally, when I read that [[Lotte Confectionery]] and [[Lotte Group]] are Korean, my Japanese spouse was surprised since we assumed that the Korean version was a pale imitation of the Japanese original. There are, after all, several Korean and Chinese imitations of Japanese products (such as [[Pocky]]) found in US Asian markets. &amp;ndash; [[User:Ish_ishwar|ishwar]] &amp;nbsp;[[User_talk:Ish_ishwar|&lt;small&gt;(speak)&lt;/small&gt;]] 21:51, 8 March 2008 (UTC)

:: About trademarks, I dont know. I've never seen Japanese chocopies in America, we've only gotten it from Japan.&amp;ndash; [[User:Ish_ishwar|ishwar]] &amp;nbsp;[[User_talk:Ish_ishwar|&lt;small&gt;(speak)&lt;/small&gt;]] 21:54, 8 March 2008 (UTC)

::: Incidentally, you can buy the Japanese version from a store near LA: [http://veryasia.com/lottechocopie.htmlveryasia.com/lottechocopie.html]. Also, there is a ''petit'' version available in Japan (but not available from the LA store). &amp;ndash; [[User:Ish_ishwar|ishwar]] &amp;nbsp;[[User_talk:Ish_ishwar|&lt;small&gt;(speak)&lt;/small&gt;]] 18:24, 10 May 2008 (UTC)

:When I was in South Korea, I ate a lot of these, when I came back to the US, and found them in a Korean Market, I bought a box, and they are the SAME. No difference. [[Special:Contributions/173.116.163.76|173.116.163.76]]([[User talk:173.116.163.76|talk]]) 11:18, 19 February 2011 (UTC)--

In Japan, [[Morinaga]] has been selling &quot;angel pie&quot;, a marshmallow version of chocopie since 1958[http://www.morinaga.co.jp/angelpie/history.html]. So it is not an invention of Orion. In addition, チョコパイ (chocopie in Japanese) is trademarked by two different companies, Lotte and Furuta as &quot;ロッテチョコパイ&quot;(Lotte chocopie) and &quot;フルタチョコパイ&quot;(Furuta chocopie). Chocopie itself is not trademarked, ... probably because it is considered as a common noun.--[[User:Mochi|Mochi]] ([[User talk:Mochi|talk]]) 12:11, 26 February 2011 (UTC)

== Choco pie name ==

I'm eating a &quot;Choco Pie&quot; by Lotte here, and I was curious about the info on it, so I came and looked it up, and apparently this is made by Orion. I think this Choco Pie here is either spelled Choco pie or just Chocopie with a line break to the next line to make it seem like Choco Pie.
&lt;!-- continued below --&gt;

Anyways, since there appears to be multiple chocolate pies and products using the Choco Pie/Choco pie/Chocopie name, this article needs to be rewritten. The Chocolate pie product is not unique to Orion Confectionery. This product can be made (and is made) by many different companies in many different countries either with or without the Choco Pie name or a variant of it. This product was not the first to be created, and also, if it doesn't have a trademark on the name in every single country, then there's no reason to only include this version of the &quot;chocolate pie&quot; snack cake. I will take information from the other language wikis and reorganize the info.&lt;s&gt;(And this article is pretty much an attempt by Koreans with inferiority/superiority complexes to boost their pride/self-esteem, etc. That's unneeded here on Wikipedia. If you want to boast on &quot;your&quot; products, go to the forums where you can do it as much as you want.)&lt;/s&gt;
:I've fixed it a bit, but this article needs more information on the pie's consistency, marketing, production, reception, etc. - [[User:M0rphzone|M0rphzone]] ([[User talk:M0rphzone|talk]]) 01:26, 17 March 2012 (UTC)
:Btw, about that inferiority part, just read the [[Pyeongchang]] article as well, and see the[[Talk:Pyeongchang|Talk page]] too. The [[Samsung]] and the [[Korean wave]] articles are more examples.[[Gimbap]], [[bibimbap]], etc. - even more examples. - [[User:M0rphzone|M0rphzone]] ([[User talk:M0rphzone|talk]]) 06:35, 3 April 2012 (UTC)

This is a clear violation of Wikipedia: Civility rules, and is very insulting to a specific ethnicity.&lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by[[User:User:Jeannebrice|User:Jeannebrice ]] ([[User talk:User:Jeannebrice |talk]] •[[Special:Contributions/User:Jeannebrice |contribs]]) 22:47, 20 March 2012‎&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt;
:Sorry if it offends you, and I have retracted the unnecessary comment. Anyways, if you (or anyone) don't want to be offended by it, just don't get offended and don't take it as an offense. This is just like dealing with the use of the n* word and the f* word. - [[User:M0rphzone|M0rphzone]] ([[User talk:M0rphzone|talk]]) 06:50, 3 April 2012 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
	<talkpage id="13746455" title="Talk:Choco Pie">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Korea|class=stub|importance=low|cuisine=yes}}
{{WikiProject Food and drink|class=stub|importance=low}}
{{WikiProject Brands|class=|importance=}}
}}

{{archives
 |auto= short
}}
	</talkpage>
</article>