<article id="21256250" title=Talk:Macedonian Argentine>
	<talkpage id="21256250" title="Talk:Macedonian Argentine">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Republic of Macedonia|class=stub|importance=}}
{{WikiProject Argentina|class=stub|importance=low}}
}}

== Untitled ==
Since when is that the flag of Macedonians in argentine? This should be removed. You cant just alter a nations symbol and add another nations symbol to it, and say it is the official flag of Macedonians in Argentina. [[Special:Contributions/82.169.98.228|82.169.98.228]] ([[User talk:82.169.98.228|talk]]) 15:53, 24 March 2010 (UTC)

The seasonal populations expressed in this article as &quot;macedonians&quot; are labelled in Argentina's history records as &quot;Bulgarians&quot;. These populations, mainly in Chaco and La Pampa provinces have always had a Bulgarian national identity, with a Macedonian geographical identification. There was no official macedonian colectivity in Argentina, and there has never been any expression of the pseudo-macedonian language. Instead there has always been a strong Bulgarian community in those provinces, and a small one in Buenos Aires (in this case mostly Bulgarian Jews), and the language spoken by them clearly stated as Bulgarian. 

In the [[Greeks in Argentina|Greek comunity in Argentina]] there are a sizable portion of immigrants hailing from the [[Macedonia (Greece)|Macedonian region]] in Greece, obviously expressing pure Hellenic identification. 

Sources and websites provided in this article are totally biased since they reflect not the reality of Argentina's immigration history, nor the truth of the events. There are plenty of Argentine books written about this subject. None of them refers to the slavo-macedonians, instead they do to the Bulgarians. This article just serves for the purpose of propaganda for the Skopian goverment. The truth is other. [[User:Periptero|Periptero]] ([[User talk:Periptero|talk]]) 22:05, 14 August 2010 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>