<article id="4859518" title=Talk:Rhaetian Railway>
	<talkpage id="4859518" title="Talk:Rhaetian Railway">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{TrainsWikiProject|imageneeded=no |class=start |importance=mid}}
{{WikiProject Companies|class=start |importance=mid}}
{{WikiProject Switzerland|class=start |importance=high}}
{{WikiProject Italy|class=start|importance=low}}
}}
{{BS template|Rhaetian Railway}}


I believe that the Castione-Cama line was closed permanently. --[[User:RKloti|RKloti]] 00:54, 23 April 2006 (UTC)
: Castione - Cama is owned and operated by a tourist railway: Ferrovia Mesolcinese FM / SEFT. see the German Wikipedia Page http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bellinzona-Mesocco-Bahn [[User:Teeschmid|Teeschmid]] ([[User talk:Teeschmid|talk]]) 10:06, 27 September 2010 (UTC)

== Infobox ==

I didn't find out how to indicate the 1000 mm gauge in the infobox and it still indicates ''standard gauge'' whatever i write. If someone could correct this.. [[User:Zacharie Grossen|Zacharie Grossen]] ([[User talk:Zacharie Grossen|talk]]) 16:01, 23 January 2009 (UTC)

==  Info boxes ==

{{Infobox rail
| railroad_name     = Rhätische Bahn
| logo_filename     = 
| logo_size         =
| image             = Landwasserviadukt.jpg|thumb|center
| image_size        = 280px
| image_caption     = RhB train on the [[Landwasser Viaduct]] 
| system_map        = Rhätischen Bahn network.png
| map_caption       = 
| marks             = 
| locale            = Switzerland
| start_year        = 
| end_year          = 
| predecessor_line  = 
| successor_line    = 
| gauge             = {{RailGauge|1000}}
| electrification   = 11 [[Volt|kV]] 16⅔ [[Hertz|Hz]] (322 km)&lt;br&gt;1000 V [[Direct current|DC]] (62 km, Bernina line) &lt;!-- Why does this not show? --&gt;
| length            = {{convert|384|km|mi|1|abbr=on}}
| hq_city           = [[Chur]]
}}
{{Infobox rail line
 | box_width   =
 | name        = Rhaetian Railway
 | color       =
 | logo        =
 | logo_width  =
 | image       = 
 | image_width = 250px
 | caption     = 
 | type        =
 | system      =
 | status      =
 | locale      =
 | start       =
 | end         =
 | stations    =
 | routes      =
 | ridership   =
 | open        =
 | close       =
 | owner       =
 | operator    =
 | character   =
 | depot       =
 | stock       =
 | linelength  = 
 | tracklength = 
 | notrack     =
 | gauge       =
 | minradius   = 
 | el          = 11 [[Volt|kV]] 16⅔ [[Hertz|Hz]] (322 km)&lt;br&gt;1000 V [[Direct current|DC]] (62 km, Bernina line) 
 | maxincline  = 4 %, except Bernina line 7 %
 | racksystem  = None 
 | speed       = 
 | elevation   =
 | map         = 
 | map_state   = collapsed
}}
Some of the parameters given in the 2nd box should also be incorporated in the first box and vice versa. [[User:Peter Horn|Peter Horn]] 15:13, 1 May 2009 (UTC)

== The &quot;Googling&quot; of the line from Thusis to Tirano  ==

I actually found this feature by accident. The Google link can be found at...

https://maps.google.co.uk/maps?hl=en&amp;ll=46.69845,9.440818&amp;spn=0.000015,0.008143&amp;t=h&amp;z=17&amp;layer=c&amp;cbll=46.698535,9.440758&amp;panoid=_sGAnVdDGyuvNV2T-oGbNQ&amp;cbp=12,173.77,,0,4.45

but it's way too long to insert into the article. There is a way to hyper-link it, but I have not got a clue how to do it. I'd be obliged if someone did.

If any interested party wants to follow the line, it MUST be done from Thusis, otherwise the only thing you're going to see is the back end of a train!!! Note that there are gaps here and there, so beware. Also, some views have been 'ghosted' or 'pixelated' out, presumably for privacy reasons.

I've done most of the line - it is superb!

[[User:Taff Hewitt|Taff Hewitt]] ([[User talk:Taff Hewitt|talk]]) 21:47, 20 June 2013 (UTC)

: All Rhaetian Railway lines are now in Google Street View. [[Special:Contributions/178.55.140.45|178.55.140.45]] ([[User talk:178.55.140.45|talk]]) 20:06, 22 November 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>