<article id="7364852" title=User talk:Welshchick69>
	<talkpage id="7364852" title="User talk:Welshchick69">
==Lisa Michelle Thomas==
Some of the people, places or things you have written about in the article [[Lisa Michelle Thomas]] may not be sufficiently well-known to merit articles of their own. The Wikipedia community [[Wikipedia:welcome, newcomers|welcomes newcomers]], and encourages them to become [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedians]]. On Wikipedia, all users are entitled to a [[Wikipedia:user page|user page]] in which they can describe themselves, and this article's content may be incorporated into that page. However, to merit inclusion in the encyclopedia proper, a subject must be [[WP:BIO|notable]]. We encourage you to write or improve articles on notable subjects. &lt;!-- Template:Vanity --&gt;  -- [[User:Merope|Merope]] &lt;small&gt;&lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:Merope|Talk]]&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;/small&gt; 12:32, 9 October 2006 (UTC)

==Ryan lee williams==
A tag has been placed on [[:Ryan lee williams]], requesting that it be speedily deleted from Wikipedia. This has been done because the article seems to be about a person, group of people, band, club, company or website, but it does not indicate how or why the subject is [[Wikipedia:Notability|notable]].  If you can indicate why Ryan lee williams is really notable, I advise you to edit the article promptly, and also put a note on [[Talk:Ryan lee williams]]. An admin should check for such edits before deleting the article. Feel free to leave a note on my talk page if you have any questions about this. Please read [[Wikipedia:Criteria for speedy deletion|our criteria for speedy deletion]], particularly item 7 under [[Wikipedia:Criteria for speedy deletion#Articles|Articles]]. You might also want to read [[Wikipedia:Notability (people)|our general biography criteria]]. Please do not remove the speedy deletion tag yourself. To contest the tagging and request that admins should wait a while for you to assert his/her/their notability, please affix the template &lt;code&gt;{{tl|hangon}}&lt;/code&gt; to the page, and then immediately add such an assertion. It is also a very good idea to add [[Wikipedia:Citing sources|citations]] from [[Wikipedia:Reliable sources|reliable sources]] to ensure that your article will be [[Wikipedia:Verifiability|verifiable]].&lt;!-- Template:Nn-warn --&gt; - [[User:SpLoT|SpLoT]] 09:37, 10 October 2006 (UTC)

== [[:Adrian keith michael john stephens]] ==

Please stop. If you continue to [[Wikipedia:Vandalism|vandalize]] pages, {{#if:{{{1|}}}|as you did to [[:{{{1}}}]],}} you will be [[Wikipedia:Blocking policy|blocked]] from editing Wikipedia. &lt;!-- Template:Test3 (Third level warning) --&gt; [[User talk:(aeropagitica)|(aeropagitica)]] 22:39, 6 December 2006 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>