<article id="42569267" title=Talk:Ebenezer Avery House/GA1>
	<talkpage id="42569267" title="Talk:Ebenezer Avery House/GA1">
==GA Review==
{{Good article tools}}
&lt;noinclude&gt;{{al|{{#titleparts:Ebenezer Avery House/GA1|-1}}|noname=yes}}&lt;br/&gt;&lt;/noinclude&gt;&lt;includeonly&gt;:''This review is [[WP:transclusion|transcluded]] from [[Talk:Ebenezer Avery House/GA1]]. The edit link for this section can be used to add comments to the review.''&lt;/includeonly&gt;

'''Reviewer:''' [[User:Go Phightins!|Go Phightins!]]&amp;nbsp;([[User talk:Go Phightins!|talk]] '''·''' [[Special:Contributions/Go Phightins!|contribs]]) 01:30, 24 April 2014 (UTC)
&lt;!-- Please add all review comments below this comment, and do not alter what is above. So that the review can be kept within a single section, please do not use level 2 headers (==...==) below to break up the review. Use level 3 (===...===), level 4 and so on.--&gt;

OK, here are some thoughts. The article is short and not particularly comprehensive; [[Joseph Webb House]], for example, is illustrated with pictures (which it seems one should be able to find/take of this building), it gives a comprehensive history (this article has several gaps in the history, most notably from the 1880s to 1970s), and it centers on the building itself, rather than the historical events that took place there (e.g., this article's third paragraph in the history section belongs in a different article). Also, expound on who Ebenezer Avery was. Finally, the article relies heavily upon ''The Day''; while other sources may not exist, it is a consideration. Right now, this article does not meet the GA criteria, and as such, I cannot pass it at this time. I will, however, leave the review open until the weekend in case you can update it. '''[[User:Go Phightins!|&lt;font color=&quot;blue&quot;&gt;Go&lt;/font&gt;]] [[User talk:Go Phightins!|&lt;font color=&quot;#E90004&quot;&gt;''Phightins''&lt;/font&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/Go Phightins!|&lt;font color=&quot;#008504&quot;&gt;!&lt;/font&gt;]]''' 01:30, 24 April 2014 (UTC)
: I have to disagree on several points. Images are not part of the GA criteria - I am not able to get a photo and I checked Google and Flickr. I'll look for some more information, but I do not think a bunch of sources to ''The Day'' should really count against me here. And everything I see all relates to this house's importance stems from the battle and how it housed the wounded. This isn't a NRHP property, so I am significantly more limited in what's out there, no survey shows up as a result - but I'll ask the association for some publications. [[User:ChrisGualtieri|ChrisGualtieri]] ([[User talk:ChrisGualtieri|talk]]) 20:19, 24 April 2014 (UTC)
:: Got some more information, but I am running up on empty I think with this. [[User:ChrisGualtieri|ChrisGualtieri]] ([[User talk:ChrisGualtieri|talk]]) 23:15, 22 May 2014 (UTC)

Anything else needed, reviewer? Seems like everyone disappeared here. [[User:Wizardman|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#030&quot;&gt;'''''Wizardman'''''&lt;/span&gt;]] 03:23, 6 July 2014 (UTC)
:Ah, crap. This completely slipped my mind; just got back from two weeks away. I'll add it to my list ... '''[[User:Go Phightins!|&lt;font color=&quot;blue&quot;&gt;Go&lt;/font&gt;]] [[User talk:Go Phightins!|&lt;font color=&quot;#E90004&quot;&gt;''Phightins''&lt;/font&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/Go Phightins!|&lt;font color=&quot;#008504&quot;&gt;!&lt;/font&gt;]]''' 20:57, 6 July 2014 (UTC)
::All right, this looks fine. Passing. '''[[User:Go Phightins!|&lt;font color=&quot;blue&quot;&gt;Go&lt;/font&gt;]] [[User talk:Go Phightins!|&lt;font color=&quot;#E90004&quot;&gt;''Phightins''&lt;/font&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/Go Phightins!|&lt;font color=&quot;#008504&quot;&gt;!&lt;/font&gt;]]''' 19:00, 7 July 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>