<article id="5149102" title=Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard>
	<talkpage id="5149102" title="Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard">
&lt;!-- Adds protection template automatically if page is semi-protected, inside the noinclude, because this page is transcluded. --&gt;&lt;noinclude&gt;{{#ifeq:{{PROTECTIONLEVEL:edit}}|autoconfirmed|{{pp|small=yes}}}}{{Pp-move-indef}}&lt;/noinclude&gt;{{Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Header}} __NEWSECTIONLINK__{{Template:Active editnotice}}
{{User:MiszaBot/config
| algo                = old(366d)
| archive             = Wikipedia:Administrators&amp;#39; noticeboard/Archive%(counter)d
| counter             = 273
| maxarchivesize      = 700K
| archiveheader       = {{Administrators' noticeboard navbox all}}
| minthreadstoarchive = 1
| minthreadsleft      = 3
}}
{{User:ClueBot III/ArchiveThis
|header={{Administrators' noticeboard navbox all}}
|archiveprefix=Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Archive
|format=%%i
|age=48
|index=no
|numberstart=255
|minkeepthreads= 4
|maxarchsize= 700000
}}{{User:HBC Archive Indexerbot/OptIn|target=Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Archive index|mask=Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Archive&lt;#&gt;|leading_zeros=0|indexhere=no}}&lt;!--
 
      ----------------------------------------------------------
      New entries go down at the *BOTTOM* of the page, not here.
      ---------------------------------------------------------- 
 

--&gt;&lt;noinclude&gt;{{Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Requests for closure}}&lt;/noinclude&gt;

== RfC closure review: [[Talk:Kosovo#Request for comment]] ==

I have started a [[Wikipedia:Closure review|closure review]] for [[Talk:Kosovo#Request for comment]]. The RfC was [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Talk%3AKosovo&amp;diff=674740882&amp;oldid=674721576 closed] by {{user|Kingsindian}} on 5 August 2015 in response to [[Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Requests for closure/Archive 18#RfC Kosovo Identification|an WP:ANRFC request]]. The close was [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Talk%3AKosovo&amp;diff=675040253&amp;oldid=675040021 hidden as a contested close] by {{user|Red Slash}}. There is discussion about the closure at [[Talk:Kosovo#Post RfC]].

There is a re-closure request [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia%3AAdministrators'_noticeboard%2FRequests_for_closure&amp;diff=675040706&amp;oldid=675025295 here] at [[WP:ANRFC]], where Red Slash wrote: &lt;blockquote&gt;Administrators, is there any chance one of you could close this? A non-admin stepped into a really complicated RfC and kind of made a mess of closing it, and we '''really''' could use a full-on administrative close. Thank you.&lt;/blockquote&gt; But per the RfC at [[Wikipedia talk:Requests for comment/Archive 12#Review]]: &lt;blockquote&gt;On the question of whether an RFC close by a non-admin can be summarily overturned by an admin, in most cases, no, and never if the only reason is that the closer was not an admin.&lt;/blockquote&gt; Kingsindian put a lot of thought into his close. His close should not be summarily overturned by an admin. Therefore, I am taking the close here for review by the community.&lt;p&gt;[[User:Cunard|Cunard]] ([[User talk:Cunard|talk]]) 05:03, 10 August 2015 (UTC)

*&lt;!-- [[User:DoNotArchiveUntil]] 05:03, 18 November 2015 (UTC) --&gt;{{User:ClueBot III/DoNotArchiveUntil|1447822980}} {{tl|Do not archive until}} added. Please remove the {{tl|Do not archive until}} tag after the review is closed. (I am adding this because RfC closure reviews frequently have been archived prematurely without being resolved.) [[User:Cunard|Cunard]] ([[User talk:Cunard|talk]]) 05:03, 10 August 2015 (UTC)
:: Kinsindian did a good job on the close.  I say leave it the way he closed it. &lt;span style=&quot;font face=&quot;Papyrus&quot; size=&quot;4&quot; font-weight:bold&quot;&gt;[[User:KoshVorlon|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#631C8C;&quot;&gt;''' ''KoshVorlon''' ''&lt;/span&gt; &lt;span style=&quot;font-family:Rage Italic; size:4;color:#43871C;&quot;&gt;''We are all Kosh''&lt;sup&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;/span&gt;]]&lt;/span&gt; 11:10, 10 August 2015 (UTC)

: Here is my version of events.
{{hat|reason=A short account of the sockpuppet matters.}}
There was some disruption by a sock in the RfC comments. {{u|Robert McClenon}} suggested on [[WP:ANRFC]] that the closure be handled by an admin because of the sock disruption. However, by the time I got around to closing, the sock had been blocked and its comments struck out. I asked Robert on his [[User_talk:Robert_McClenon#RfC_at_Kosovo|talk page]] as to his judgment about whether this needs an admin close, and he said that since the sock has been eliminated he does not see any obvious need, and told me to use my judgment. So I closed the RfC.
{{hab}}
: According to [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Talk:Kosovo&amp;diff=675040961&amp;oldid=675040253 comments] on the talk page, Red Slash thinks that my closure is vague and that it is a &quot;supervote&quot;. I am not sure what he means by this. I explained my reasoning in detail, and my closure is unambiguous: consensus against option &quot;#1&quot; and consensus for option &quot;#2 and #3&quot;, which I even [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Talk:Kosovo&amp;diff=674997526&amp;oldid=674986728 clarified] on the talk page. It is not a &quot;supervote&quot; in any form: I just assessed the consensus of a complicated discussion by looking at the arguments for all options, and determined that &quot;#2 and #3&quot; is the best (or the least bad).
: As to the point about non-admin closure, my feeling is that Red Slash in not acquainted with policy here (especially since he asked for re-closure at [[WP:ANRFC]] instead of starting a closure review, as I advised on the talk page). As I explained to him before, there is nothing special in being an admin; any uninvolved editor can close RfCs, provided they explain themselves thoroughly. Please see [[WP:ANRFC]] (point 3). [[User:Kingsindian|Kingsindian]]&amp;nbsp;[[User Talk: Kingsindian|&amp;#9821;]][[Special:Contributions/Kingsindian|&amp;#9818;]] 13:24, 10 August 2015 (UTC)
::{{u|Kingsindian}} I think you wrote a very detailed closing, and I want to ask before assuming, did you find any consensus in that RFC, or just something close to consensus but not actually consensus? [[User:AlbinoFerret|&lt;span style=&quot;color:white; background-color:#534545; font-weight: bold; font-size: 90%;&quot;&gt;AlbinoFerret&lt;/span&gt;]] 13:51, 10 August 2015 (UTC)
::: {{re|AlbinoFerret}} I am not sure exactly what you mean, perhaps my last paragraph in the RfC close is not as unambiguous as I think it is. I definitely found that the consensus is against option #1. For the rest of the options, option &quot;#2 and #3&quot; came the closest, and in my judgement, was close enough to be considered consensus. I clarified this on the talk page [[Talk:Kosovo#Post_RfC|here]]. [[User:Kingsindian|Kingsindian]]&amp;nbsp;[[User Talk: Kingsindian|&amp;#9821;]][[Special:Contributions/Kingsindian|&amp;#9818;]] 14:11, 10 August 2015 (UTC)
::::I am another editor closer. I have found when a 50/50 question in my mind arises to just as the person to make sure. While I personally would not have touched this RFC with a ten foot keyboard cable, its a good close. Since the sock issue was cleared up, I dont see why an editor couldnt have closed it.[[User:AlbinoFerret|&lt;span style=&quot;color:white; background-color:#534545; font-weight: bold; font-size: 90%;&quot;&gt;AlbinoFerret&lt;/span&gt;]] 14:17, 10 August 2015 (UTC)
:If I may be allowed to comment here, firstly - no disrespect to admins - but just as trained judges are not &quot;superhumans&quot;, persons with admin status are not somehow better qualified to cast judgement than any third party uninvolved editors. I cannot help but think that the editor to request admin closure is using this track as a sneaky &quot;appeal&quot; because he personally disagrees with the decision of Kingsindian. Seeing the closing statement by Kingsindian, I see all the hallmarks of a good judge who read every comment and weighed through them to arrive at his rational conclusion. If he became an admin tomorrow I doubt he will have suddenly acquired new observation methods, we are all human beings. --[[User:Edin Balgarin|Edin Balgarin]] ([[User talk:Edin Balgarin|talk]]) 22:52, 10 August 2015 (UTC) 

== Inappropriate edit summaries ==

[[Wikipedia:Sockpuppet investigations/Escoperloit]] targeted [[Persian people]] and its talk page [[Talk:Persian people]]. Many of his edit summaries are inappropriate, racist and ethnic insults. For example see [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Talk:Persian_people&amp;diff=678135275&amp;oldid=678105750 this diff]. It will be very helpful if some admins remove those edit summaries. Should I provide all related diffs? --[[User:Zyma|Zyma]] ([[User talk:Zyma|talk]]) 05:21, 7 September 2015 (UTC)
:I think I got them all. &amp;mdash;&amp;nbsp;Martin &lt;small&gt;([[User:MSGJ|MSGJ]]&amp;nbsp;·&amp;nbsp;[[User talk:MSGJ|talk]])&lt;/small&gt; 12:15, 7 September 2015 (UTC)
::{{re|MSGJ}} Would these count for deletion too? [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Persian_people&amp;diff=677436933&amp;oldid=677436833][https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Persian_people&amp;diff=677436793&amp;oldid=677436409] Thanks &lt;span style=&quot;text-shadow:7px 5px 7px maroon&quot;&gt;-- [[User:Orduin|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#123524&quot;&gt;Orduin&lt;/span&gt;]] &lt;sup&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;font-size:80%&quot;&gt;[[User talk:Orduin|&lt;span style=&quot;color:#353839&quot;&gt;'''Discuss'''&lt;/span&gt;]]&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;/span&gt; 22:06, 8 September 2015 (UTC)
:::Yeah, someone needs to revdelete that nonsense and block the IP (again). '''&lt;span style=&quot;color:red;&quot;&gt;Erpert&lt;/span&gt;''' &lt;small&gt;&lt;sup&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;color:green;&quot;&gt;[[User talk:Erpert|blah, blah, blah...]]&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;/small&gt; 00:21, 9 September 2015 (UTC)
::::Got them. IP &lt;s&gt;is already blocked&lt;/s&gt; was blocked at the time. &amp;mdash;&amp;nbsp;Martin &lt;small&gt;([[User:MSGJ|MSGJ]]&amp;nbsp;·&amp;nbsp;[[User talk:MSGJ|talk]])&lt;/small&gt; 08:35, 9 September 2015 (UTC)
:::::The IP doesn't ''appear'' to be blocked... '''&lt;span style=&quot;color:red;&quot;&gt;Erpert&lt;/span&gt;''' &lt;small&gt;&lt;sup&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;color:green;&quot;&gt;[[User talk:Erpert|blah, blah, blah...]]&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;/small&gt; 08:55, 9 September 2015 (UTC)
::::::Rephrased! We wouldn't generally block for longer unless problems reoccur. &amp;mdash;&amp;nbsp;Martin &lt;small&gt;([[User:MSGJ|MSGJ]]&amp;nbsp;·&amp;nbsp;[[User talk:MSGJ|talk]])&lt;/small&gt; 09:23, 9 September 2015 (UTC)
Thank you very much. Regards. --[[User:Zyma|Zyma]] ([[User talk:Zyma|talk]]) 23:07, 10 September 2015 (UTC)

== Alan Kurdy related articles ==

We now have three articles, somehow related to the recent (a week ago) death of Alan Kurdy. All of them have been nominated for deletion: [[Alan Kurdi]] (with a redirect [[Death of Alan Kurdi]]), [[Photographs of Alan Kurdi]], and [[Nilüfer Demir]]. There are three independent AfD discussions, and also a number of merge discussions, since some of the articles were proposed to be merged. I voted in two of the AfDs, and I will certainly not be an admin summarizing the discussions. However, I think it would be beneficial if these discussions were summarized by one person, since the most possible outcome (as it looks now) would be merge and redirect, and different discussions have very different ideas on what should be merged where. Any ideas how it could be helped? To be clear, I am not soliciting the opinions on the notability of the articles (which should be left in the corresponding AfD discussions), I am asking for the suggestions how these independent discussions could be closed in the most efficient way, taking into account all opinions. Thanks.--[[User:Ymblanter|Ymblanter]] ([[User talk:Ymblanter|talk]]) 14:19, 10 September 2015 (UTC)
*One suggestion would be to implement any consensus with no out-of-article effect (i.e any plain &quot;keep&quot;, &quot;no consensus&quot; or &quot;delete&quot; decisions) and if consensus is to &quot;merge&quot; or &quot;redirect&quot; to have a centralized discussion on how to implement it.[[User:Jo-Jo Eumerus|Jo-Jo Eumerus]] ([[User talk:Jo-Jo Eumerus|talk]], [[Special:Contributions/Jo-Jo Eumerus|contributions]]) 18:56, 10 September 2015 (UTC)
*I'd suggest closing the AfD for [[Nilüfer Demir]] first, then [[Photographs of Alan Kurdi]], and finally [[Alan Kurdi]]. The general chain of thought process among those supporting a merge appears to be in that order for a merge, and a final destination of [[Death of Alan Kurdi]]. I'm making no claim that this is the consensus, but if the results are merges, that is the order that makes sense. ~ &lt;b&gt;[[User:BU Rob13|Rob]]&lt;/b&gt;&lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:BU Rob13|Talk]]&lt;/sup&gt; 21:26, 10 September 2015 (UTC)
* My superficial reading is that the boy's article should be kept and renamed (I am considering both the AfD and the merge discussions) to &quot;Death of ...&quot;, considering that the consensus seems to be that it merits an article but more over the death than the victim. The photographies article is murkier; probably more of a consensus to merge but the direction is an issue. Milüfer needs more input for now. This is assuming that current trends don't change. [[User:Jo-Jo Eumerus|Jo-Jo Eumerus]] ([[User talk:Jo-Jo Eumerus|talk]], [[Special:Contributions/Jo-Jo Eumerus|contributions]]) 21:41, 10 September 2015 (UTC)
* I've gone ahead and merged the merge discussions with the AfD discussions:
** [[Talk:Alan Kurdi#Proposed merge with Photos of Aylan Kurdi's corpse]]
** [[Talk:Alan Kurdi#Proposed merge to Photographs of Alan Kurdi]]
** [[Talk:Photographs of Alan Kurdi#Merge Nilüfer Demir to here]]
* Hopefully this should reduce the fragmentation of the discussions a little bit. I am wondering whether it would be a good idea to close [[Wikipedia:Articles for deletion/Alan Kurdi]] as &lt;s&gt;speedy&lt;/s&gt; a [[WP:SNOW]] keep, and then defer the question of whether to move the page to the move discussion at [[Talk:Alan Kurdi#Requested move 4 September 2015]]. This depends on whether the discussion qualifies for &lt;s&gt;speedy keep&lt;/s&gt; [[WP:SNOW]], though, which I'm not sure it does. — '''''[[User:Mr. Stradivarius|&lt;span style=&quot;color: #194D00; font-family: Palatino, Times, serif&quot;&gt;Mr.&amp;nbsp;Stradivarius&lt;/span&gt;]]''''' &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:Mr. Stradivarius|♪&amp;nbsp;talk&amp;nbsp;♪]]&lt;/sup&gt; 06:07, 11 September 2015 (UTC)
*: Thanks to all of you who responded so far. Now [[Alan Kurdi]] was closed as keep, waiting for the other two.--[[User:Ymblanter|Ymblanter]] ([[User talk:Ymblanter|talk]]) 17:09, 11 September 2015 (UTC)
::*{{U|Ymblanter}}, it's by accident that I see this. Yes, the boy's article is closed, and I closed the photograph-article as &quot;merge&quot;, which I think is properly seen as &quot;merge back&quot;. That was a very unwise split-off from the main article. The photographer, there was no way to close that (early); we'll just have to let it run its course. There's some support for deletion, some support for keeping; much will depend on what the news cycle produces in the next few days. Thanks, [[User:Drmies|Drmies]] ([[User talk:Drmies|talk]]) 22:37, 11 September 2015 (UTC)
::*: Thanks for taking care of the first two requests. Yes, now we need to wait for several days until the nomination about the photographer could be closed.--[[User:Ymblanter|Ymblanter]] ([[User talk:Ymblanter|talk]]) 07:29, 12 September 2015 (UTC)

== &quot;Llanfair­pwllgwyngyll­gogery­chwyrn­drobwll­llan­tysilio­gogo­goch&quot; should redirect to &quot;Llanfairpwllgwyngyll&quot; ==
{{resolved|no problem here to solve. [[User:Beeblebrox|Beeblebrox]] ([[User talk:Beeblebrox|talk]]) 19:03, 11 September 2015 (UTC)}}
See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Llanfairpwllgwyngyll

:It does. [[User:AndyTheGrump|AndyTheGrump]] ([[User talk:AndyTheGrump|talk]]) 17:04, 11 September 2015 (UTC)
:: Hmmm. In theory the silly Victorian long name is the &quot;official&quot; one, according to some sources anyway. I must have a look at this. &lt;b&gt;[[User Talk:JzG|Guy]]&lt;/b&gt; &lt;small&gt;([[User:JzG/help|Help!]])&lt;/small&gt; 18:06, 12 September 2015 (UTC)

== Disruptive user (again) ==

I believe that the [[Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/IncidentArchive870#Disruptive anonymous user (Portuguese)|disruptive and blocked user]] is back since [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Administrators%27_noticeboard/Incidents&amp;diff=prev&amp;oldid=670604462#Disruptive_user my last report]. Sock now uses [[IPv6]] addresses: {{u|2001:8a0:6cc4:5601:1831:82dd:4d1f:9bbb}}, {{u|2001:8a0:6cc4:5601:7d21:3dd1:e01c:bb62}}, {{u|2001:8a0:6cc4:1501:243f:b83a:2c0f:4e3a}}. [[User:SLBedit|SLBedit]] ([[User talk:SLBedit|talk]]) 21:03, 11 September 2015 (UTC)
*Tell that irritator that if they ever want to accomplish anything they'll have to play by the rules. It starts on the talk page. I'll be glad to extend protection indefinitely if they keep fucking around. [[User:Drmies|Drmies]] ([[User talk:Drmies|talk]]) 22:14, 11 September 2015 (UTC)

{{ANImove}}

== [[WP:COP]]-related CfD closure review ==

{{Archive top|result=(NAC - unarchived for closure): discussion is at [[Wikipedia:Deletion review/Log/2015 September 3#Category:1 BC deaths]]. --[[User:Francis Schonken|Francis Schonken]] ([[User talk:Francis Schonken|talk]]) 10:47, 12 September 2015 (UTC)|status=MOVED TO DRV}}
Per [[WP:CLOSECHALLENGE]] I'd like a closure review on [[Wikipedia:Categories for discussion/Log/2015 May 25#1st to 5th century BC births]]:
# Trying to sort it out with the closer, to no avail: [[User talk:MER-C#Problem with closure of Wikipedia:Categories for discussion/Log/2015 May 25#1st to 5th century BC births]] 
# Prior to that I had attempted to stop the bot implementing the closure, but the bot already had completed the task [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=User_talk:Armbrust&amp;diff=prev&amp;oldid=675309237]

Problem with the CfD as closed: overrides [[WP:COPDEF]] and [[WP:SEPARATE]] by adding categories like [[:Category:15 BC]] to biographical articles. I'm OK with merging BC &quot;birth by year&quot; categories in BC &quot;birth by decade&quot; categories, and recategorizing the affected biographical articles along these lines, not with the &quot;dual upmerge&quot; of &quot;birth by year&quot; categories in biographical articles to both a &quot;birth by decade&quot; ''and'' a &quot;by year&quot; category (e.g. [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Germanicus&amp;type=revision&amp;diff=675255267&amp;oldid=673993759]) while this is undesirable overcategorization (&quot;birth by date&quot; categories are covered by [[WP:COPDEF]], &quot;by year&quot; categories are not), and makes the BC by year categories mixed people/non-people categories (not allowed by [[WP:SEPARATE]]).

I started removing &quot;by year&quot; categories ([https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Germanicus&amp;diff=next&amp;oldid=675255267 diff]), which is uncontroversial per [[WP:COP]], but there are too many and any cooperation of bot operators seems to be impossible as long as there's no apparent consensus this is indeed what should be done. Also [[Wikipedia:Bot policy#Categorization of people]] proved to be ineffective in this case (see [[Wikipedia talk:Bots/Requests for approval#ArmbrustBot 4]])

{{ping|Marcocapelle}} pinging initiator of the CfD to know their view whether they were aware about the COPDEF/SEPARATE issues when submitting the CfD, and if not, whether it would have made any difference when being aware? Same question to the others participating in the CfD: {{u|Peterkingiron}}, {{u|Vegaswikian}} and {{u|Ricky81682}}.

Tx for considering this. --[[User:Francis Schonken|Francis Schonken]] ([[User talk:Francis Schonken|talk]]) 16:43, 10 August 2015 (UTC)
* Agreed that &quot;dual upmerge&quot; of &quot;birth by year&quot; categories in biographical articles to both a &quot;birth by decade&quot; and a &quot;by year&quot; category, would be highly undesirable. The non-birth year categories would be flooded with birth trivia, when they're suppose to contain other events, and have the births in a subcat. &lt;span style=&quot;white-space:nowrap;font-family:'Trebuchet MS'&quot;&gt; — [[User:SMcCandlish|'''SMcCandlish''' ☺]] [[User talk:SMcCandlish|☏]] [[Special:Contributions/SMcCandlish|¢]] ≽&lt;sup&gt;ʌ&lt;/sup&gt;ⱷ҅&lt;sub&gt;ᴥ&lt;/sub&gt;ⱷ&lt;sup&gt;ʌ&lt;/sup&gt;≼ &lt;/span&gt; 13:08, 11 August 2015 (UTC)
* I wasn't aware of any issues, for what it's worth in this stage. [[User:Marcocapelle|Marcocapelle]] ([[User talk:Marcocapelle|talk]]) 06:43, 12 August 2015 (UTC)

===Similar===
The closure at  [[Wikipedia:Categories for discussion/Log/2015 May 30#1st to 6th century BC deaths]] has the same problem, I notified bot operator [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=User_talk:Armbrust&amp;curid=47036313&amp;diff=675596102&amp;oldid=675315651] and closing admin [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=User_talk%3AFayenatic_london&amp;type=revision&amp;diff=675596871&amp;oldid=675329632] of the topic being discussed here. --[[User:Francis Schonken|Francis Schonken]] ([[User talk:Francis Schonken|talk]]) 15:25, 11 August 2015 (UTC)
:Too late – contents already merged, see  [[WP:CFDWM]]. At least we can hold off deletion of the old categories. – [[User:Fayenatic london|Fayenatic]] '''&lt;font color=&quot;#FF0000&quot;&gt;[[Special:Contributions/Fayenatic london|L]]&lt;/font&gt;'''[[User talk:Fayenatic london|ondon]] 17:58, 11 August 2015 (UTC)

===Forward===
Are we in agreement about these points:
# The closures of {{u|MER-C}} on [[Wikipedia:Categories for discussion/Log/2015 May 25#1st to 5th century BC births]] and of {{u|Fayenatic london}} on [[Wikipedia:Categories for discussion/Log/2015 May 30#1st to 6th century BC deaths]] are undone, in view of the [[WP:COP]] incompatibility;
# The recategorizations and (partial) category deletions resulting from the now suspended closures are undone by bot
# {{u|Marcocapelle}} or whoever thinks this a good idea are of course at liberty to resubmit a similar CfD that keeps within the provisions of [[WP:COP]].

I'd agree with a simple removal of &quot;year&quot; categories on biographical articles by bot, but as this may lead to other issues, I think it best to fully retract our steps to the situation &quot;ante&quot;, and take it from there. --[[User:Francis Schonken|Francis Schonken]] ([[User talk:Francis Schonken|talk]]) 09:42, 12 August 2015 (UTC)
* I would have no objection against removing them from &quot;year&quot; categories. [[User:Marcocapelle|Marcocapelle]] ([[User talk:Marcocapelle|talk]]) 19:52, 12 August 2015 (UTC)
** The consensus was a double upmerge. If the bios may not be categorised in the year categories, the other contributors may prefer to revert to the old births-by-year categories, rather than remove biographies from the year hierarchy altogether. Removing the bios from the year cats may make it harder to revert, as we would then not be able simply to reverse the contribs of Armbrustbot – which would be quite an arduous task on its own. – [[User:Fayenatic london|Fayenatic]] '''&lt;font color=&quot;#FF0000&quot;&gt;[[Special:Contributions/Fayenatic london|L]]&lt;/font&gt;'''[[User talk:Fayenatic london|ondon]] 17:50, 13 August 2015 (UTC)
*** Fair enough. Then I'd say just leave everything as currently is. [[User:Marcocapelle|Marcocapelle]] ([[User talk:Marcocapelle|talk]]) 17:42, 22 August 2015 (UTC)
* Are we in agreement then to close this thread on the three points I outlined above? --[[User:Francis Schonken|Francis Schonken]] ([[User talk:Francis Schonken|talk]]) 05:17, 14 August 2015 (UTC)

* '''Oppose''' overturning CFD discussionions on this page. The correct venue is [[WP:DRV]]. [[User:Armbrust|Armbrust]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:Armbrust|&lt;font color=&quot;#E3A857&quot;&gt;The&lt;/font&gt; &lt;font color=&quot;#008000&quot;&gt;Homunculus&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;/sup&gt; 02:59, 17 August 2015 (UTC)
**Nah, [[WP:CfD]] does not stand for &quot;Categories for deletion&quot;, it stands for &quot;Categories for discussion&quot;, so, per [[WP:CLOSECHALLENGE]] &quot;Challenging other closures&quot; applies for which this is the right venue. {{ping|Armbrust}} please stop wikilawyering, the consensus is clear. --[[User:Francis Schonken|Francis Schonken]] ([[User talk:Francis Schonken|talk]]) 05:25, 17 August 2015 (UTC)
***Doesn't matter, whether the D stands for deletion or not. CFD is part of the [[WP:XFD|deletion process]], and is therefore reviewed at [[WP:DRV]]. Also please don't close this discussion in violation of [[WP:INVOLVED]] again. [[User:Armbrust|Armbrust]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:Armbrust|&lt;font color=&quot;#E3A857&quot;&gt;The&lt;/font&gt; &lt;font color=&quot;#008000&quot;&gt;Homunculus&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;/sup&gt; 11:50, 17 August 2015 (UTC)
****Which part of &quot;please stop wikilawyering&quot; was unclear? E.g., [[WP:INVOLVED]] is about admins, I'm not. --[[User:Francis Schonken|Francis Schonken]] ([[User talk:Francis Schonken|talk]]) 04:59, 19 August 2015 (UTC)
****Updated the closure, inviting a closer look from '''uninvolved''' users only. --[[User:Francis Schonken|Francis Schonken]] ([[User talk:Francis Schonken|talk]]) 05:01, 19 August 2015 (UTC)
*****You keep to close this as an involved editor, and then say that &quot;a closer look from '''uninvolved''' users only&quot;. That's boardering on hypocrisy. You can request uninvolved closure at [[WP:ANRFC]]. [[User:Armbrust|Armbrust]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:Armbrust|&lt;font color=&quot;#E3A857&quot;&gt;The&lt;/font&gt; &lt;font color=&quot;#008000&quot;&gt;Homunculus&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;/sup&gt; 06:50, 19 August 2015 (UTC)
******Again: which part of &quot;please stop wikilawyering&quot; was unclear? E.g., shouldn't be listed at [[WP:ANRFC]], doesn't meet its criteria. --[[User:Francis Schonken|Francis Schonken]] ([[User talk:Francis Schonken|talk]]) 05:46, 20 August 2015 (UTC)
*******Again: which part of &quot;don't close this while being &quot;involved&quot; in the discussion was unclear.&quot; [[WP:ANRFC]] doesn't have any such criteria. [[User:Armbrust|Armbrust]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:Armbrust|&lt;font color=&quot;#E3A857&quot;&gt;The&lt;/font&gt; &lt;font color=&quot;#008000&quot;&gt;Homunculus&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;/sup&gt; 06:32, 20 August 2015 (UTC)
********[[WP:ANRFC]]'s criteria: &quot;Formal closure by an uninvolved editor or administrator should be requested where consensus remains unclear, where the issue is a contentious one, or where there are wiki-wide implications&quot;
********#&quot;...consensus remains unclear...&quot; – consensus is clear
********#&quot;...issue is a contentious one...&quot; – nobody thinks application of [[WP:COP]] to be contentious in this case
********#&quot;...wiki-wide implications...&quot; – well-defined limited set of articles, standard application of guidance: no wiki-wide implication
*******:There is no rule that an involved party can't assess a clear consensus, close accordingly, and not burden ANRFC with such a trivial matter. So please stop wikilawyering: all procedural arguments against an uncontentious assessment of a clear consensus are clearly off-topic, no more than [[WP:NOTBUREAUCRACY|artificial red tape]] far from the ground of the matter (a series of categorizations not allowed by [[WP:COP]] on which everyone agrees it is applicable guidance here). --[[User:Francis Schonken|Francis Schonken]] ([[User talk:Francis Schonken|talk]]) 08:17, 21 August 2015 (UTC)
********No, the consensus isn't clear in this discussion at all. Nobody really agrees with your proposal in the forward section. [[User:Armbrust|Armbrust]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:Armbrust|&lt;font color=&quot;#E3A857&quot;&gt;The&lt;/font&gt; &lt;font color=&quot;#008000&quot;&gt;Homunculus&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;/sup&gt; 08:42, 21 August 2015 (UTC)
*********If an ''uninvolved'' editor thinks so, they can assess my closure. For the [[WP:INVOLVED]] admin I recommend [[Wikipedia:Drop the stick and back slowly away from the horse carcass]]. --[[User:Francis Schonken|Francis Schonken]] ([[User talk:Francis Schonken|talk]]) 09:01, 21 August 2015 (UTC)
**********I'm not an admin, so [[WP:INVOLVED]] doesn't apply... according to your comment at 04:59, 19 August 2015 (UTC). [[User:Armbrust|Armbrust]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:Armbrust|&lt;font color=&quot;#E3A857&quot;&gt;The&lt;/font&gt; &lt;font color=&quot;#008000&quot;&gt;Homunculus&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;/sup&gt; 09:08, 21 August 2015 (UTC)

*I'm going to say '''support''' MER-C's original close (as it was summing up the consensus). If another category needs deleting, this can be done separately (Personally, I say empty the &quot;by decade&quot; category, and change it to a parent cat of the &quot;by year&quot; ones, but that's just my 2 cents). This is probably dealt with best with a new CfD, not by overturning a perfectly valid close of a discussion from the views expressed. The close is valid with the arguments provided there. [[User:Mdann52|Mdann52]] ([[User talk:Mdann52|talk]]) 10:25, 21 August 2015 (UTC)

*I asked for an uninvolved admin to review this discussion at [[Wikipedia talk:Deletion review#Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Incidents#WP:COP-related CfD closure review]]. [[User:Cunard|Cunard]] ([[User talk:Cunard|talk]]) 06:02, 24 August 2015 (UTC)

*Agreed that this discussion belongs at DRV.—[[User:S Marshall|&lt;font face=&quot;Verdana&quot; color=&quot;Maroon&quot;&gt;'''S Marshall'''&lt;/font&gt;]] &lt;small&gt;[[User talk:S Marshall|T]]/[[Special:Contributions/S Marshall|C]]&lt;/small&gt; 07:28, 24 August 2015 (UTC)
{{Archive bottom}}

== Blank AFC submissions ==

More convenient here rather than CSD tagging. The criterion is G2.

*[[Draft:09july1993]]
*[[Draft:Article]]
*[[Wikipedia talk:Articles for creation/brian sedze]]
*[[Wikipedia talk:Articles for creation/Denitria Lanise Santiago]]
*[[Wikipedia talk:Articles for creation/Hakan Dogu]]
*[[Wikipedia talk:Articles for creation/Justin Matthew]]
*[[Wikipedia talk:Articles for creation/Lourdes Mount College of Engineering &amp; Technology]]
*[[Wikipedia talk:Articles for creation/Pune:all information about pune]]
*[[Wikipedia talk:Articles for creation/Raphael Gentry: A Man of Great Faith and Empowerment]]
*[[Wikipedia talk:Articles for creation/Sitda Bisballe - Nirvana is close by - Suan Mokh retreats]]
*[[Draft:AnshuWap Inc.]]
*[[Draft:Bamanghta]]
*[[Draft:Dan Samson]]
*[[Draft:David Cant (Chartered Safety Practitioner)]]
*[[Draft:David Monroe (Christian Shade)]]
*[[Draft:Hi]]
*[[Draft:HAU SHI SEN]]  &lt;small class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—&amp;nbsp;Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/103.6.159.92|103.6.159.92]] ([[User talk:103.6.159.92|talk]]) 16:34, 12 September 2015 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:*{{done}} except for the one that actually had content. &lt;span style=&quot;font-size:10pt;color:white;background:black;padding:0 3px;&quot;&gt;&lt;big&gt;☺&lt;/big&gt;&amp;nbsp;·&amp;nbsp;[[User:Salvidrim!|&lt;span class=&quot;smallcaps&quot; style=&quot;font-variant:small-caps;&quot;&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;color:white&quot;&gt;Salvidrim!&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/span&gt;]]&amp;nbsp;·&amp;nbsp;[[User talk:Salvidrim|&lt;span style=&quot;color:white&quot;&gt;&amp;#9993;&lt;/span&gt;]]&lt;/span&gt; 17:31, 12 September 2015 (UTC)

== Skamecrazy123  ==
&lt;div class=&quot;boilerplate&quot; style=&quot;background-color: #EDEAFF; padding: 0px 10px 0px 10px; border: 1px solid #8779DD;&quot;&gt;{{Quote box
  | title = 
  | title_bg = #C3C3C3
  | title_fnt = #000
  | quote = Duplicate thread. If anyone wishes to comment on this matter, please do so at [[Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Incidents#Skamecrazy123 (Moved)]]. -- [[User:Diannaa|Diannaa]] ([[User talk:Diannaa|talk]]) 20:35, 12 September 2015 (UTC)
  | width = 30%|halign=left}}
:''The following discussion is closed. &lt;span style=&quot;color:red&quot;&gt;'''Please do not modify it.'''&lt;/span&gt;  No further edits should be made to this discussion.''&lt;!-- from Template:Archive top--&gt;
----
I can't leave a msg on the [[User:Skamecrazy123]] talk page. Some of the recent reverts being done by the editor are wrong and are unexplained. [[Special:Contributions/203.173.186.163|203.173.186.163]] ([[User talk:203.173.186.163|talk]]) 19:43, 12 September 2015 (UTC)
:It's protected from vandals. And what exactly were you adding to the articles that I reverted, hmm?--[[User:Skamecrazy123|Skamecrazy123]] ([[User talk:Skamecrazy123|talk]]) 19:44, 12 September 2015 (UTC)

::In one case I fixed a link that you broke and for the [[email client]] article I cleaned it up a bit. [[Special:Contributions/203.173.186.163|203.173.186.163]] ([[User talk:203.173.186.163|talk]]) 19:47, 12 September 2015 (UTC)
:::Why didn't you explain that in the edit summary, instead of wasting my time dragging me here? It didn't look like you were cleaning it up at all, hence the revert. --[[User:Skamecrazy123|Skamecrazy123]] ([[User talk:Skamecrazy123|talk]]) 19:51, 12 September 2015 (UTC)

::::I explained one of my reasons in a hidden comment in the edit (which you should have noticed), and the rest of it should have been obvious. To say it is wasting your time is a spurious argument. I could say that you are wasting my time.  Also, the quality of your edits had to be raised.  If I saw two problematic edits in such a short space of time in=t calls into question all of you other edits. [[Special:Contributions/203.173.186.163|203.173.186.163]] ([[User talk:203.173.186.163|talk]]) 19:55, 12 September 2015 (UTC)

::::Also, why didn't you explain YOUR reasons for the reverts? [[Special:Contributions/203.173.186.163|203.173.186.163]] ([[User talk:203.173.186.163|talk]]) 20:06, 12 September 2015 (UTC)

:[https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Rainbow_flag_%28LGBT_movement%29&amp;diff=prev&amp;oldid=680428446 This is another bad edit] from Skamecrazy123. [[Special:Contributions/203.173.186.163|203.173.186.163]] ([[User talk:203.173.186.163|talk]]) 19:58, 12 September 2015 (UTC)
----
: ''The discussion above is closed.  &lt;b style=&quot;color: #FF0000;&quot;&gt;Please do not modify it.&lt;/b&gt;  No further edits should be made to this discussion.''&lt;!-- from [[Template:Archive bottom]] --&gt;&lt;/div&gt;&lt;div style=&quot;clear:both;&quot;&gt;&lt;/div&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>