<article id="5901637" title=Talk:Reptilian complex>
	<talkpage id="5901637" title="Talk:Reptilian complex">

{{WPMED|class=Start|importance=Low|neurology=yes|neurology-imp=Mid}}
Shouldn't this article explain why the subject is called Reptilian? While etymology is probably the least of the neurologist's concern, an explanation would still be appreciated.  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/69.137.179.133|69.137.179.133]] ([[User talk:69.137.179.133|talk]]) 16:43, 28 May 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Merge into [[Triune brain]] ==

There's very little here specifically about the R-complex itself. Most of the material goes into the larger subject of the Triune brain, which is already covered in that article. It just doesn't make sense to have a separate article -- unless somebody plans to expand it in the very near future. Until &amp; unless that happens, it really should be just a redirect to [[Triune brain]]. [[User:Cgingold|Cgingold]] ([[User talk:Cgingold|talk]]) 23:44, 28 October 2008 (UTC)
:'''Support:'''  This article's contents is not limited to the R-complex.  In fact, most of the information is about the [[Triune brain]] concept; it properly belongs there.  Only a sentence or two are about the R-complex specifically.  There is no point in maintaining two articles with the same scope. [[User:Freederick|Freederick]] ([[User talk:Freederick|talk]]) 02:21, 8 December 2008 (UTC)
: I agree that the R-Complex could be merged into the Triune brain.  I also think the article about the triune brain needs to be expanded.--[[User:JGaynard|JGaynard]] ([[User talk:JGaynard|talk]]) 10:47, 4 February 2009 (UTC)
:'''Oppose:''' Put more specific information as pertains to the Reptilian brain. Unless you have a section to in [[Triune brain]] on the [[Reptilian Complex]] which is re-split into a separate article once it grows to a sufficient size. Like the articles on [[Neocortex]] and [[Limbic System]]. [[User:Genjix|Genjix]] ([[User talk:Genjix|talk]]) 23:37, 27 April 2010 (UTC)

== Source misinterpreted ==

The claim that the R-Complex is responsible for rage and fight-or-flight response owing to their amygdalar origin is erroneous in that the amygdala is a limbic (lower mammalian) structure.  The citation given to support this claim is a page in an online textbook which discusses the limbic system and its role in emotion -- to wit, not the mesencephalon or below (the so-called &quot;reptilian brain&quot;).
[[User:Myislanduniverse|Myislanduniverse]] ([[User talk:Myislanduniverse|talk]]) 21:36, 10 November 2008 (UTC)

Your wrong, the reptilian brain consists of an amygdala. The limbic system is associated with the amygdala as well. My point is that there is overlap.[[Special:Contributions/142.150.48.133|142.150.48.133]] ([[User talk:142.150.48.133|talk]]) 00:30, 5 August 2009 (UTC)

:Think you missed his REAL point. To wit this person challenges an citation that is not to hardcopy (i.e. paper or microfiche). This  elitist academic viewpoint seeks to limit Wikipedia article authorship and disputes to those with direct and frequent access to the best physical libraries (universities and major national cities). Perhaps he is primarily correct. 
:But we should nevertheless recognize the self-serving aspect of that argument. In any case the implications is that the online text material is misquoted because it is not clearly written or peer reviewed for accuracy of its conclusions like a text published on paper. Once 30-50 years ago that would have been fairly accurate assumption. But for 30-40 years texts and science have bowed more and more to Political Correctness in order to seek funding (the same as &quot;publish or die&quot; what always meant but now the people with money are mostly PC aware rather seeking momuments or rewards of objective truth). [[Special:Contributions/69.23.121.234|69.23.121.234]] ([[User talk:69.23.121.234|talk]]) 09:27, 10 December 2009 (UTC)

== What does &quot;between these two brains&quot; mean? ==

The following paragraph of this article makes no sense:

&quot;The brainstem and older, atavistic areas of the central nervous system control normal involuntary behavior that the conscious mind does not, such as the cardiac and respiratory functions. These are found in all vertebrates. In between these two brains, lies the R-complex.&quot;

What &quot;two brains&quot; is the article talking about?  Surely it's not saying that the R-Complex is physically between the brainstem (on the one hand) and the other evolutionarily &quot;older&quot; parts of the brain (on the other hand).  My understanding of &quot;R Complex&quot; has been that it CONSISTS OF the brainstem and other &quot;older&quot; parts of the brain, rather than standing separate from them.  

But lets research that.  Google lists 55200 articles on this.  Let me read a few.  (Reads articles.)
http://www.psycheducation.org/emotion/R%20complex.htm
http://www.vesalius.com/cfoli_frms.asp?VID=78&amp;StartFrame=7&amp;tnVID=461
http://www.vesalius.com/cfoli_frms.asp?VID=78&amp;StartFrame=10&amp;tnVID=461#n12
Ah, my understanding was wrong also.  The &quot;Triune Brain&quot; model actually EXCLUDES the areas I thought the R-complex was made of.  Actually, the R-Complex consists of the Cerebral Ventricles, the Thalamus, the Caudate Nucleus, and the Lenticular Nucleus.  All of these are above the brainstem, but below the Limbic System, so the &quot;two brains&quot; this author was vague referring to must be &quot;Brainstem&quot; and &quot;Limbic System&quot;.  But those aren't &quot;brains&quot;, so this was badly worded.

I'm not certain that this artcle should necessarily be merged into the &quot;Triune Brain&quot; article, though it should obviously contain links to it.  But more importantly, the contents, citations, and vague wording need to be cleaned up.  Some of this is so vague and bad, I'll take the liberty of rewording it (and citing the veslius surgical education site).

[[User:LoneWolfiNTj|LoneWolfiNTj]] ([[User talk:LoneWolfiNTj|talk]]) 17:29, 18 January 2010 (UTC) Robbie Hatley (Wikipedia user &quot;LoneWolfiNTj&quot;) 9:39AM PST Mon. Jan. 18, 2010
	</talkpage>
</article>