<article id="8328119" title=Talk:Black people (terminology)>
	<talkpage id="8328119" title="Talk:Black people (terminology)">
Under the entry for Canada, the term &quot;African skin&quot; is used - what is &quot;African skin&quot;? Is it different from dark skin?
:very good point. This needs editing of course.--[[User:Filll|Filll]] 13:09, 8 December 2006 (UTC)
------

I've deleted much of the information regarding derogatory terms -- for precisely the same reason I deleted such information in an early version of the article [[Black people]].  No other ethnic group on Wikipedia that I am aware of has a complete article devoted to terms used to describe them, which also includes a number of derogatory terms.  That information belongs in the &quot;list of ethnic slurs&quot; article and not here.  Furthermore, the information regarding the history of the use of &quot;black&quot; is amply and exhaustively covered elsewhere. It does not bear rehashing here.  A &quot;see also&quot; notation should suffice.

Frankly, IMO, this entire article could disappear.  Its usefulness is highly doubtful.  What other ethnic group has a multilingual list of synonyms for that group?  This is, after all, explicitly an English-language encyclopedia.  Is there a chart discussing the various words in other lanugages for &quot;Jew,&quot; including say:  &quot;yehudi&quot; and &quot;kike&quot;?  How about for &quot;Latino,&quot; including, &quot;beano,&quot; &quot;spic,&quot; &quot;wetback,&quot; or for whites, including &quot;honkey,&quot; &quot;cracker,&quot; &quot;paddy boy,&quot; &quot;grey,&quot; &quot;buckra,&quot; etc.?  The answer is no.  For my money, the chart is just another excuse for the  gratuitous and offensive treatment of ignorant, ugly, pejorative terms associated with black people.  And I, for one, see no reason to play word association games with words utilized by the mean spirited, intellectually challenged, emotionally stunted and spiritually twisted.  I question the  motives behind the resurrection of such vile garbage.  [[User:Deeceevoice|deeceevoice]] 15:52, 18 January 2007 (UTC)

:The problem is '''EVERY WORD''' can become negative. I do not deny that currently the &quot;n&quot; word is highly negative in some populations, depending on '''WHO USES THE WORD'''. But that is how pejoration works. You erased the pejoration section huh? NAACP is a dirty word? Come on give me a break.--[[User:Filll|Filll]] 16:45, 18 January 2007 (UTC)

I deleted the section on &quot;perjoration,&quot; because it is merely a recapitulation of information already presented more appropriately elsewhere, in another article; it is redundant.  And, no, I will not &quot;give &lt;nowiki&gt;[you]&lt;/nowiki&gt; a break&quot; -- or anyone else, for that matter, who sees any article treating black people, generally, as an opportunity to repeat the myriad, hackneyed expressions of hatred, racism and intolerance associated with Africa's progeny -- as though such filth defines who we are as a people.  When other Wikipedia articles on other ethnic groups take a similar approach -- marrying general information with such trash -- then and only then will I consider letting such disgusting tripe stand.  [[User:Deeceevoice|deeceevoice]] 18:10, 18 January 2007 (UTC)

NAACP is a dirty word? --[[User:Filll|Filll]] 19:25, 18 January 2007 (UTC)

What about &quot;redundant&quot; don't you get?  [[User:Deeceevoice|deeceevoice]] 12:30, 19 January 2007 (UTC)

== Content all effectively deleted ==

I'm not sure if this was consensus intention but these two successive edits - [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Black_people_%28terminology%29&amp;diff=102287066&amp;oldid=101773325] and [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Black_people_%28terminology%29&amp;diff=next&amp;oldid=102287066] - effectively deleted all of the content of this article by making it a redirect but not merging content. I agree that it could all have used citation, but the section on how this term is used in various countries appears to have been accurate on all points that I am familiar with. - [[User:Jmabel|Jmabel]] | [[User talk:Jmabel|Talk]] 05:46, 13 February 2007 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>