<article id="9071492" title=Talk:Haitian Vodou and sexual orientation>
	<talkpage id="9071492" title="Talk:Haitian Vodou and sexual orientation">
{{LGBTProject|class=Start}}
{{WikiProject Religion|class=Start|importance=}}
{{oldafdfull|page=Homosexuality and Voodoo|date=5 September 2007|result='''no consensus'''}}

== This article is ridiculous ==

I think this article is a hoax too. Anyone who knows Voodoo, knows this can't be the case. Either the person who wrote this is lying or they are a divorcee who is newly lesbian and trying to justify it.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/74.65.206.106|74.65.206.106]] ([[User talk:74.65.206.106|talk]]) 04:05, 3 April 2010 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

This entry is full of inaccuracies and untruths as anyone who knows anything about Haiti, Haitian culture or Vodou can testify.  I suggest that this article may be a hoax.  It is certainly very misleading.  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/193.120.160.30|193.120.160.30]] ([[User talk:193.120.160.30|talk]]) 12:50, 12 August 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

: I agree entirely.  The article almost entirely lacks citations, and the citations that are there do not support the article, or at best provide spurious support.  Anyone who knows anything about Haiti and Vodou knows what general attitudes are towards homosexuality.  Let's keep the articles real, people!  [[User:Eastcote|Eastcote]] ([[User talk:Eastcote|talk]]) 04:22, 3 December 2008 (UTC)
::Interesting but vague assertions. A tag of unbalanced should be accompanied by a discussion of actionable items that other editors can look into and, hopefully, fix or address. Simply stating that every knows this isn't true or that the list of sources don't support this isn't helpful. Do you have a source that shows what we have here is untrue? If so it would help to review that source. [[User_talk:Benjiboi| -- &lt;u style=&quot;font-size:14px; font-family: cursive;color:#CC00CC&quot;&gt;Banj&lt;font color=&quot;#FF4400&quot;&gt;e&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/u&gt;&lt;u style=&quot;font-size:14px;font-family: Zapfino, sans-serif;color:deeppink&quot;&gt;b&lt;font color=&quot;#CC0000&quot;&gt;oi&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/u&gt;]] 07:26, 29 December 2008 (UTC)
:::That's not how it works.  It's not up to me to provide citations to support my view.  I didn't write the article.  It's up to the writers of this article to support their assertions with solid references.  If I assert that leopards are pink, it's not up to you to provide documentation to the contrary.  It's up to me to provide proof that they are in fact pink.  This article provides scant in-line citations, and those that are provided are questionable in their support of the article's main assertions.  The reference in Metraux's work, ''Voodoo in Haiti'', for instance, has nothing to do with homosexuality, but refers to possession by the Loa.  Metraux is silent on homosexuality (I have the book open to the index in front of me).  The link to Mama Zogbe's article points to a blank page.  The &quot;Reverend&quot; Ms. Severina Singh is likely not an authority on Vodou of any kind, much less Haitian. She's a hodge-podge of Feng Shui, Reiki, &quot;Native American&quot; Medicine, Rastaferianism, Sikhism, and Tibetan Lamas, to name a few.  Is the word &quot;charlatan&quot; apt?  The list of &quot;Further Reading&quot; also provides a lot of pop metaphysics (Goddess-worship, Isaac Bonewits, etc.) and articles unclear in their support (does ''AIDS, Fear and Society'', for instance, say anything concerning Vodou and homosexuality?  If so, cite the reference).  This article is weak at best, and untruthful at worst.  This article needs work to provide support for its assertions, or it is simply spurious. [[User:Eastcote|Eastcote]] ([[User talk:Eastcote|talk]]) 02:23, 31 December 2008 (UTC)
::::You may have missed my point. In regards to a tag like {{tl|pov}} or {{tl|unbalanced}} placed on an article the talkpage should also have a section to address the issue, hopefully in a friendly manner, so that whatever is thought to be POV or unbalanced can be addressed in some way. What I meant with vague statements weren't helpful was that they weren't actionable. Now you have actually stated some items that can be looked into by those interested in helping improve the article. Thank you! [[User_talk:Benjiboi| -- &lt;u style=&quot;font-size:14px; font-family: cursive;color:#8000FF&quot;&gt;Banj&lt;font color=&quot;#FF4400&quot;&gt;e&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/u&gt;&lt;u style=&quot;font-size:14px;font-family: Zapfino, sans-serif;color:deeppink&quot;&gt;b&lt;font color=&quot;#CC0000&quot;&gt;oi&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/u&gt;]] 10:56, 3 January 2009 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>