<article id="2535738" title=Talk:Talbot>
	<talkpage id="2535738" title="Talk:Talbot">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Formula One|class=start|importance=low}}
{{WikiProject Automobiles |class=Start |importance=Mid}}
{{WikiProject World Rally}}
{{WikiProject London|class=|importance=}}
{{WikiProject France|class=start}}
}}

== Wiederbelebung des Namens ==

Ich weiß auch nicht, was Peugeot so treibt. Es wäre doch ein leichtes und vor allem ein elegantes gewesen den 406 Coupé als ''Talbot Coupé'' zu präsentieren. Jetzt steht der 407 Coupé in den Startlöchern und schon wieder passiert nichts dergleichen. Rolz-reus 15:41, 25. Aug 2005 (CEST) (und Talbot-Samba-Kabriolett-Fahrer)

== Date of closure ==

Does anyone know the exact date (day and month) that the last Talbot passenger car was made and in what country?

== Car List ==

We should add the list of cars built by Talbot.

== Brand or marque? ==

Isn't &quot;marque&quot; the term used in the case of cars - brand suonds a bit too prosaic to my ears.[[Special:Contributions/78.49.78.174|78.49.78.174]] ([[User talk:78.49.78.174|talk]]) 09:57, 2 July 2010 (UTC)

:Dead right - that, in fact, is why I looked in here! Change it? [[Special:Contributions/77.181.159.208|77.181.159.208]] ([[User talk:77.181.159.208|talk]]) 15:27, 15 April 2011 (UTC)
::Agreed, &amp; done.  [[User:Trekphiler|&lt;font color=&quot;	#9400D3&quot;&gt;&lt;small&gt;TREKphiler&lt;/small&gt;&lt;/font&gt;]] [[User talk:Trekphiler|&lt;font color=&quot;#FF033E&quot;&gt;&lt;sup&gt;&lt;small&gt;any time you're ready, Uhura&lt;/small&gt; &lt;/sup&gt;]]&lt;/font&gt; 16:05, 15 April 2011 (UTC)

:::MARQUE! Just plain weird creepy cliquey talk. surely you've also got a better name for a spade than spade that'd be AWESOME Too. [[User:Eddaido|Eddaido]] ([[User talk:Eddaido|talk]]) 23:15, 16 April 2011 (UTC)

::::And you're back with your ignorance. &quot;Marque&quot; is a commonplace in the industry, &amp; has been for decades. That you find it &quot; plain weird creepy cliquey talk&quot; doesn't change that. Neither does your blatantly false effort to characterize it as a French usage, since it's very common in Britain. That you have never heard it doesn't make it untrue.  [[User:Trekphiler|&lt;font color=&quot;#3F00FF&quot;&gt;&lt;small&gt;TREKphiler&lt;/small&gt;&lt;/font&gt;]] [[User talk:Trekphiler|&lt;font color=&quot;#008000&quot;&gt;&lt;sup&gt;&lt;small&gt;any time you're ready, Uhura&lt;/small&gt; &lt;/sup&gt;]]&lt;/font&gt; 22:40, 7 October 2011 (UTC)

:::::Always been here. Some have even become so dedicated to promoting it as to go through Wikipedia making the changes to this 'new' word. One of them tells me the push seems to come from North America. That change in Talbot was not made by anyone with anything to do with me, It was made from a French address. Are the names Adolphe Clément and Alexandre Darracq French? Why do you choose to use this marque word with regard to Talbot? Why do you not use this word for Canadian car brands? Why not use it for Chevrolet (Louis), Chrysler, Ford, Cadillac products? It is just some simple-minded people using what they probably dearly imagine to be a cute foreign word, without understanding its use, for a 'foreign' car. Am I wrong? [[User:Eddaido|Eddaido]] ([[User talk:Eddaido|talk]]) 22:59, 7 October 2011 (UTC)
::::::Nothing &quot;new&quot; about this word. I've seen it in use in the industry since the '70s (if not earlier). (The fact you haven't doesn't govern.) The change from &quot;marque&quot; to &quot;brand&quot; was, perhaps, from France; the [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Talbot&amp;diff=prev&amp;oldid=454360512 change ''back''] you attributed to France was by me. I'm not from France. As for why I haven't changed it elsewhere, I haven't edited many Chrysler, Ford, or Cad products, &amp; AFAIR, &quot;brand&quot; or &quot;marque&quot; hasn't arisen. (And Louis Chevrolet isn't a company, but a person, so not an issue. I might call [[Frontenac Motor Corporation|Frontenac]] a marque...) European companies ''should'' conform to ''Brit'' usage, which is &quot;marque&quot;, not &quot;brand&quot;. (I'd use it with Jag, Bentley, &amp; TVR, too, so &quot;France&quot; ''does not'' enter into it, despite your fiction.) Furthermore, you're reviving an old issue with no new argument. Misrepresenting things does not gain you support. &quot;It is just some simple-minded people using what they probably dearly imagine to be a cute foreign word&quot; Calling me simple-minded doesn't, either. I'm using the ''correct term''. What puzzles me is why you care. What, exactly, bothers you about the word so much? It appears to be nothing beyond [[Wikipedia:I just don't like it|&quot;I just don't like it&quot;]].  [[User:Trekphiler|&lt;font color=&quot;#3F00FF&quot;&gt;&lt;small&gt;TREKphiler&lt;/small&gt;&lt;/font&gt;]] [[User talk:Trekphiler|&lt;font color=&quot;#008000&quot;&gt;&lt;sup&gt;&lt;small&gt;any time you're ready, Uhura&lt;/small&gt; &lt;/sup&gt;]]&lt;/font&gt; 23:56 &amp; 00:14, 8 October 2011 (UTC)

{{outdent}}
This topic is being discussed at [[Wikipedia_talk:WikiProject_Automobiles#Making your marque]]. &lt;span style=&quot;border:1px solid blue;color:blue&quot;&gt;[[User:Stepho-wrs|'''&amp;nbsp;Stepho&amp;nbsp;''']]&amp;nbsp;&lt;span style=&quot;font-size:xx-small; vertical-align:top&quot;&gt;[[User Talk:Stepho-wrs|talk]]&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/span&gt; 08:29, 8 October 2011 (UTC)

:See [[Rover Company]], [[Austin Rover Group]], or more importantly [[Chrysler Europe]] and [[Rootes Group]] which are closely associated with this article. All these articles use the word &quot;marque&quot; over &quot;brand&quot;. As pointed out by others, marque is commonly used in automobile articles. Saying it is &quot;plain weird creepy cliquey talk&quot; is akin to [[WP:IDONTLIKEIT|&quot;I don't like it&quot;]], which is frowned upon at Wikipedia. --[[User:Biker Biker|Biker Biker]] ([[User talk:Biker Biker|talk]]) 08:51, 8 October 2011 (UTC)

==Oh Hellé==
Can anybody subsantiate [[Hellé Nice|Mariette Delangle]] ran a Talbot at the '31 Italian Grand Prix?  [[User:Trekphiler|&lt;font color=&quot;#1034A6&quot;&gt;&lt;small&gt;TREKphiler&lt;/small&gt;&lt;/font&gt;]] [[User talk:Trekphiler|&lt;font color=&quot;#1034A6&quot;&gt;&lt;sup&gt;&lt;small&gt;any time you're ready, Uhura&lt;/small&gt; &lt;/sup&gt;]]&lt;/font&gt; 17:46, 25 August 2010 (UTC)
:She's not listed at [http://www.teamdan.com/archive/gen/1931.html#italy teamdan.com] and that's usually a pretty reliable source. [[User:DH85868993|DH85868993]] ([[User talk:DH85868993|talk]]) 00:09, 8 October 2011 (UTC)
::Thx.  [[User:Trekphiler|&lt;font color=&quot;#3F00FF&quot;&gt;&lt;small&gt;TREKphiler&lt;/small&gt;&lt;/font&gt;]] [[User talk:Trekphiler|&lt;font color=&quot;#008000&quot;&gt;&lt;sup&gt;&lt;small&gt;any time you're ready, Uhura&lt;/small&gt; &lt;/sup&gt;]]&lt;/font&gt; 00:14, 8 October 2011 (UTC)
:::She's also not listed at [http://www.racing-database.com/ racing-database.com] (navigate to Formula 1--&gt;Pre-War Races--&gt;1931--&gt;IX Gran Premio d´Italia). [[User:DH85868993|DH85868993]] ([[User talk:DH85868993|talk]]) 00:24, 8 October 2011 (UTC)
::::That one is excellent! Thx again. Now to fix the Nice page...  [[User:Trekphiler|&lt;font color=&quot;#3F00FF&quot;&gt;&lt;small&gt;TREKphiler&lt;/small&gt;&lt;/font&gt;]] [[User talk:Trekphiler|&lt;font color=&quot;#008000&quot;&gt;&lt;sup&gt;&lt;small&gt;any time you're ready, Uhura&lt;/small&gt; &lt;/sup&gt;]]&lt;/font&gt; 01:02, 8 October 2011 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>