<article id="10245273" title=Talk:Gevaot>
	<talkpage id="10245273" title="Talk:Gevaot">
{{WikiProject Israel|class=Start|importance=Low}}
{{reqphoto|in=Israel}}

== Legality status ==

I noticed that the line:

::The international community considers Israeli settlements in the [[West Bank]] [[International law and Israeli settlements|illegal under international law]], although the Israeli government disputes this.

Was removed and replaced with just the word illegal. Was there a reason for this change? - [[User:Galatz|Galatz]] ([[User talk:Galatz|talk]]) 13:18, 3 September 2014 (UTC)

: It's still there. --[[User:IRISZOOM|IRISZOOM]] ([[User talk:IRISZOOM|talk]]) 13:21, 3 September 2014 (UTC)
::You are right, I missed that it was moved. I think though that the word illegal being there is then contradicted by the statement below - [[User:Galatz|Galatz]] ([[User talk:Galatz|talk]]) 13:26, 3 September 2014 (UTC)

== Poliocretes ==

 &lt;blockquote&gt;while Israeli media reported the move was in response to the kidnapping and murder of the three Israeli teens.&lt;/blockquote&gt;
That is what Ynet reported. Don't remove it. Rephrase it if you find it inadequate.[[User:Nishidani|Nishidani]] ([[User talk:Nishidani|talk]]) 17:16, 10 December 2014 (UTC)
:I removed it, because it does not belong in the Reactions section, it is completely irrelevant there. The &quot;Israeli media&quot; is not a person, body or entity whose reactions are relevant, and even if they were, the sentence does in no way resembles a Reaction to the move - it merely reports about it. The fact that the move was related to the murder of the three teens is already mentioned above, which is precisely why I moved the ref up there. [[User:Poliocretes|Poliocretes]] ([[User talk:Poliocretes|talk]]) 16:36, 11 December 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>