<article id="5062391" title=Talk:CSI>
	<talkpage id="5062391" title="Talk:CSI">
{{DisambigProject}}
==CSI: CREDIT CRUNCH ==

This is the title of an artile I once read in the economist magzine. I am not sure what it means here, but I Initially thought that it might be related to economics. However, I have seen CSI at many different places...I thought to check it in wikipedia, I found quite some usages of the abrivation, but I didn't find any related to economics. Does it have an economic meaning too, and if not then what is the meaning of here...Please guide me and all wikipedia users.

Here's the link to the economist article.

http://www.economist.com/specialreports/displaystory.cfm?story_id=9972489

Free Access can be found here:

http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1G1-169991370.html

[[User:DaDexter|Sajjad Arif]] ([[User talk:DaDexter|talk]]) 15:21, 15 September 2009 (UTC)

== To Be or Not to Be a Crime Scene Investigator ==

http://blogs.discovery.com/sleuth_truth/true_crime_entertainment_tv/

==Edit on 11 February 2009 ==
* [[Forensic science|Crime scene investigator]] : Piping should be avoid
* Qualified member (CSI) of the [[Construction Specifications Institute]] : The link should be the first word or phrase in each entry.

[[User:Rayyung|RayYung]] ([[User talk:Rayyung|talk]]) 01:33, 12 February 2009 (UTC)

CSI

Cyberautograph Signed Item

just stumbled across this, during a photoshop installation. thought first it is a something &quot;forensic&quot; built in - lol
don´t know what this really is - somehow a sort of signature of a file.....

--[[Special:Contributions/84.119.5.6|84.119.5.6]] ([[User talk:84.119.5.6|talk]]) 20:41, 1 February 2010 (UTC)

== Cdn Securities Institute ==

I'm going to go ahead and move the Canadina Securities Institute to the Education section, where it undoubtedly deserves to be. --[[Special:Contributions/66.222.230.34|66.222.230.34]] ([[User talk:66.222.230.34|talk]]) 19:07, 24 November 2010 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>