<article id="46871068" title=User talk:Mrdumo/TWA/Earth>
	<talkpage id="46871068" title="User talk:Mrdumo/TWA/Earth">

&lt;/div&gt;&lt;/div&gt;&lt;/div&gt;&lt;br /&gt;
&lt;div style=&quot;margin-top: -2em; background-color: #040023; color: #E9E9F0; font-family: 'futura', arial, sans serif;&quot;&gt;
&lt;div style=&quot;padding: 2em&quot;&gt;
{{TWA/Logo/3}}
{{clear}}
&lt;br&gt;
&lt;div style=&quot;background-color: #FFFFFF; color: #656565; border: 2px solid #3FB6FF; padding: 1em; font-family: arial, sans serif; font-size: 1.2em; width: 90%; margin: auto; border-radius: .5em;&quot;&gt;

&lt;center&gt;'''This is the talk page for discussing improvements to The Wikipedia Adventure Earth article'''&lt;/center&gt;

==Reliable sources about Earth?==
*&quot;15 Things I Love about Mother Nature&quot;. Starmother, Jasmine Michelle. Jas Planet Loving Earthblog. May, 2002. http.jasminesearthblog.blogblogblog.com/15_things_I Love. Retrieved {{currentdate}}.
*&quot;Planet Earth in the Balance of History&quot;. Gnawledge, O'penn . Science and Nature Journal. . March 21, 2010. * http.sanj.com/Earthinthebalance. Retrieved {{currentdate}}.
*&quot;Earth is a Planet&quot;. Duzit, E.Z., MiddleSchool Books. April 2004, London. Retrieved {{currentdate}}.

Hope that helps!  --[[User:GaiaGirl86|GaiaGirl86]] ([[User talk:GaiaGirl86|talk]]) &lt;includeonly&gt;{{subst:currentdate}}&lt;/includeonly&gt;

:Science and Nature Journal looks like a solid and relevant source with a good reputation. I think we can rely on it more than the others for this article. Nice research! [[User:Mrdumo|Mrdumo]] ([[User talk:Mrdumo|talk]]) 05:49, 2 June 2015 (UTC)
==Summary from the Source==
I went and summarized the source in my own words:
:Science shows that the Earth formed around 4.5 billion years ago. The organisms that live on Earth have completely changed its air (atmosphere); this is called a biosphere. 71% of Earth's surface is covered in salt water oceans. Earth is the only place in the Solar System where liquid water is known to exist at present. The other 29% is made of rocky land in the shape of continents and islands.

:Earth interacts with other objects in the Solar System, particularly the Sun and the Moon. The Earth orbits or goes around the Sun roughly once every 365.25 days. One spin is called a day and one orbit around the Sun is called a year. This is why there are 365 days in a year, but a leap day is added once every 4 years.
It'd be great if someone could add that for me, I have a rocket to catch! Bye for now ;)   --[[User:GaiaGirl86|GaiaGirl86]] ([[User talk:GaiaGirl86|talk]]) &lt;includeonly&gt;{{subst:currentdate}}&lt;/includeonly&gt;
== What are you doing?? ==

The info you added does. not. reference. a. source. That's bad, bad, bad! Does anyone know even where this freakin' came from????  --[[User:Taggy McTaggerstein|Taggy McTaggerstein]] ([[User talk:Taggy McTaggerstein|talk]]) &lt;includeonly&gt;{{subst:currentdate}}&lt;/includeonly&gt;
:You're pretty quick there Taggy. I'm glad people like you are looking out for readers. I'll add a source in just a moment. I'm looking for instructions on how to do it. -- YOU {{currentdate}}

::Hey. I'm sorry if I was a bit rude. I had a rough day and I came to Wikipedia for some peace and quiet— when I see something wrong I just can't wait to fix it! I care about this project that much. I'll try and be friendlier next time.  I know how important it is to be civil, and I'm working on it. I hope you stay around. This link might help you out: [[Help:Introduction to referencing]]  --[[User:Taggy McTaggerstein|Taggy McTaggerstein]] ([[User talk:Taggy McTaggerstein|talk]]) &lt;includeonly&gt;{{subst:currentdate}}&lt;/includeonly&gt;

::::I'm so pleased with you both.  Now, carry on, we have an encyclopedia to write ;)  --[[User:SocraTease|SocraTease]] ([[User talk:SocraTease|talk]]) &lt;includeonly&gt;{{subst:currentdate}}&lt;/includeonly&gt;
==Imagine images!==
I checked Commons and I really like these images. Could someone please add them to the article? 

*File:The Blue Marble.jpg
*File:Bachalpseeflowers.jpg
*File:Sunset in El Porto, California (8074300769).jpg
*File:Polarlicht 2.jpg
*File:Red eyed tree frog edit2.jpg
*File:Schoolgirls in Bamozai.JPG

Thanks zillions !! --[[User:GaiaGirl86|GaiaGirl86]] ([[User talk:GaiaGirl86|talk]]) &lt;includeonly&gt;{{subst:currentdate}}&lt;/includeonly&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>