<article id="25281837" title=User talk:TheresaFudge>
	<talkpage id="25281837" title="User talk:TheresaFudge">


== Welcome ==
'''Welcome'''

Hello and welcome to Wikipedia.  We appreciate encyclopedic contributions, but some of your recent contributions{{#if:|, such as your edit to the page [[:]],}} seem to be advertising or for promotional purposes.  Wikipedia does not allow advertising.  For more information on this, see:
*[[Wikipedia:Neutral point of view|Policy on neutral point of view]]
*[[Wikipedia:Spam|Guideline on spam]]
*[[Wikipedia:External links|Guideline on external links]]
*[[WP:COI|Guideline on conflict of interest]]
If you still have questions, there is a [[Wikipedia:New contributors' help page|new contributor's help page]], or you can write '''&lt;nowiki&gt;{{helpme}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;''' below this message along with a question and someone will be along to answer it shortly.  You may also find the following pages useful for a general introduction to Wikipedia:
*[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]] and [[Wikipedia:Article development|how to develop articles]]
*[[Help:Contents|Help pages]]
*[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
*[[Wikipedia:Article wizard 2.0|Article wizard]] for creating new articles
*[[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]]
I hope you enjoy editing Wikipedia!  Please [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|sign your name]] on talk pages using four tildes (&lt;nowiki&gt;~~~~&lt;/nowiki&gt;); this will automatically produce your name and the date. Feel free to write a note on the bottom of {{#if:Themfromspace|[[User talk:Themfromspace{{!}}my talk page]]|my talk page}} if you want to get in touch with me. Again, welcome! &lt;!-- Template:Welcomespam --&gt; 
'''[[User:Themfromspace|&lt;font color=&quot;blue&quot;&gt;Them&lt;/font&gt;]][[User talk:Themfromspace|&lt;font color=&quot;red&quot;&gt;From&lt;/font&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/themfromspace|&lt;font color=&quot;black&quot;&gt;Space&lt;/font&gt;]]''' 19:59, 2 December 2009 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>