<article id="9691224" title=Talk:Olivia Records>
	<talkpage id="9691224" title="Talk:Olivia Records">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Business|class=stub|importance=}}
{{WikiProject LGBT studies|class=Stub}}
{{WikiProject Record Labels}}
}}

{{reqphoto|business &amp; economic topics}}

== To be or to stay? this is the question ==
&quot;Olivia moved to Los Angeles to be to stay on top of the burgeoning music scene and then to Oakland.&quot;
which of the two?
--[[User:Dia^|Dia^]] 10:52, 12 July 2007 (UTC)

Both.  The collective started in LA because it seemed like a good idea and because living in the Wilshire district was fairly inexpensive.  They moved to Oakland for several reasons: Because Oakland was beginning to develop but was still reasonably affordable, there was a large upwardly mobile lesbian population, there were studios and a pool of musicians as there had been in LA, and also because the collective had simply had enough of LA and it was time for a change.

I removed the reference to Tret Fure because Tret was never part of the collective, nor did she work with the collective until very near the end.  The collective was extremely careful about who they allowed to be close, and they did not like Tret's politics, because on occasion she worked with male musicians; on the other hand, Tret did not like the collective's politics, because of a discussion about the collective's desire to make a record specifically with women of color.  Tret was considered for the album, but at a long and uncomfortable meeting during which she questioned the collective at length about their politics with regard to recording women of color, she concluded that the collective had not developed a mature political stance about the issue but, as she put it, &quot;simply want(s) to make an album with women of color&quot;.  After the meeting Tret had very little contact with the collective.  Eventually when Tret became lovers with Cris Williamson, and when both of them faced up to and began to deal with their drug habits, they began to come into closer contact with the collective.  Near the end of the collective's time, when it began experimenting with the Second Wave imprint and allowing some male musicians on those projects, Tret did do some production work for the label.

[[User:Ruchel47|Ruchel47]] 04:15, 2 August 2007 (UTC)

==References and explanation==

someone wrote: ''Williamson's groundbreaking album The Changer and the Changed'' 
Could anyone explain in the article why this album is groundbreaking?

and can anyone produce some references for the article?
for example for the sound engineer, for the movings and so on...
--[[User:Dia^|Dia^]] 14:16, 17 August 2007 (UTC)

==Remove==
I removed this [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Olivia_Records&amp;diff=153283602&amp;oldid=151822313] paragraph because not encyclopedic. --[[User:Dia^|Dia^]] 20:08, 27 August 2007 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>