<article id="9266417" title=Talk:List of airports in Ivory Coast>
	<talkpage id="9266417" title="Talk:List of airports in Ivory Coast">
{{WPAVIATION|Airports-project=yes|class=List}}
{{AfricaProject|class=List|CI=yes}}

== Missing airports ==

These airports should be removed from the list of airports in Ivory Coast:


[[Ouango Fitini Airport]] ICAO: DIOF IATA: OFI  9°36'0N 4°3'0W
[http://maps.google.com/?ll=9.597026,-4.02812&amp;spn=0.010917,0.011898&amp;t=h&amp;z=17]&lt;br&gt;
No obvious runway near coords, only a wide E-W marginal strip in flat area. No paved roads, a few huts.


[[Séguéla Airport]] IATA: SEO  ICAO: DISG  7°58′6″N 6°42′39″W
[http://maps.google.com/?ll=7.959532,-6.644325&amp;spn=0.043862,0.047593&amp;t=h&amp;z=15]&lt;br&gt;
Dirt runway has trees growing on it. No other obvious runways near coords.


[[Katiola Airport]]  IATA: KTC  ICAO: none  8.1344°N 5.0654°W
[http://maps.google.com/?ll=8.131862,-5.064182&amp;spn=0.021922,0.023797&amp;t=h&amp;z=16]&lt;br&gt;
Dirt runway has trees and shrubs growing on it. Approx 2500 ft of original 5250 ft is marginally (though not completely) clear for landing. No other obvious runways near coords. Neither fallingrain.com nor ourairports.com list Katiola.


[[Ferkessédougou Airport]]  IATA: FEK  ICAO: DIFK   9°36′0N 5°12′0W
[http://maps.google.com/?ll=9.596942,-5.199709&amp;spn=0.043669,0.047593&amp;t=h&amp;z=15]&lt;br&gt;
No obvious runway or ghost of a runway in or near the town.


[[Divo Airport]]  IATA: DIV  ICAO: DIDV  05°47′35″N 005°21′16″W
[http://maps.google.com/?ll=5.817453,-5.356264&amp;spn=0.088121,0.095186&amp;t=h&amp;z=14]&lt;br&gt;
No obvious runway or ghost of a runway in or near the town.


[[Aboisso Airport]]  IATA: ABO – ICAO: DIAO  05°25′59″N 003°16′0″W
[http://maps.google.com/?ll=5.462127,-3.216677&amp;spn=0.088175,0.095186&amp;t=h&amp;z=14]&lt;br&gt;
No obvious runway or ghost of a runway in or near the coords or the town.

[[User:Cptmrmcmillan|Cptmrmcmillan]] ([[User talk:Cptmrmcmillan|talk]]) 06:57, 11 June 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>