<article id="40259777" title=Talk:Gelett Burgess Children's Book Award>
	<talkpage id="40259777" title="Talk:Gelett Burgess Children's Book Award">
{{WikiProject Awards and prizes|class=stub|importance=low}}
{{WikiProject Children's literature|class=stub
|importance=low}}

==American==

This article is in {{cl|American literary awards}}. In what sense is it American? --[[User:P64|P64]] ([[User talk:P64|talk]]) 21:37, 5 October 2013 (UTC)

==Picture books==
: ''last of multiple new sections posted at once -P64''

Is this a picture books award? From the display of 2011 honors books I infer that all were picture books.[http://www.gelettburgessfoundation.org/2011_honors.php] Limitation to picture books may fit Gelett Burgess qua creator of Goops.

Some of these books have distinct writer and illustrator. In what sense does the award recognize one &quot;author&quot; as in our table? --[[User:P64|P64]] ([[User talk:P64|talk]]) 21:37, 5 October 2013 (UTC)

== Author? ==

We list Work=&quot;author&quot; without exception for three years. 

That is odd for the official online presentation of winners (2013, http://www.gelettburgessfoundation.org/2013_honors.php) does not identify any persons, &quot;authors&quot; or otherwise (writer, illustrator, editor, translator, publisher). It lists merely the citation (award category including &quot;Honor&quot; for the Book of the Year category), a title, and a cover image for each book recognized. Nor does the blurb atop each annual list (2013, 2012, and 2010/2011 so far) indicate that this is anything but a book award.

In what sense is the author(s) --writer(s), i presume-- specifically recognized?

--[[User:P64|P64]] ([[User talk:P64|talk]]) 00:36, 15 February 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>