<article id="4152933" title=Talk:Takuya Kanbara>
	<talkpage id="4152933" title="Talk:Takuya Kanbara">
{{WikiProject Anime and manga
|class=redirect
|listas=Kanbara, Takuya
|digimon-work-group=yes
}}
{{WikiProject Fictional characters|class=redirect}}

==Kanji name for Takuya Kanbara==
I read the kanji for Takuya Kanbara as 神原拓, which litterally reads as (each character seperated by '-') kan-bara-taku. I will resolve this unfinished name using another source within wikipedia: http://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digimon_Frontier.

Before: (神原拓) After: (神原拓也). I hope you do not mind me changing the name to this. Thanks, vzegm.  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Vzegm|Vzegm]] ([[User talk:Vzegm|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Vzegm|contribs]]) 01:57, 8 January 2009 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

==The Symbol==
Does the symbol on Takuya's t-shirt and cap have a meaning? It reminds me of the symbols from Digimon Adventure but it is none of them... &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:213.39.154.112|213.39.154.112]] ([[User talk:213.39.154.112|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/213.39.154.112|contribs]]) &lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt;

:::Not that I am aware of. I think it's just a made up logo. Although it does look quite like a crest symbol. It looks most like the crest of kindness to me. [[User:Bubble bunny|Bubble bunny]]

== Alternate Susanoomons ==

Is it possible the Susanoomon seen in Digimon Frontier is only one of many?

I say this because the one seen was created by the DNA Digivolution of EmperorGreymon and MagnaGarurumon, and as such, bears symbols of that on his armour (the Greymon and Garurumon heads on his wrists for example). 
It is feasible that a seperate combination of two of the other elements (Wind and Ice, possibly) would result in a different Susanoomon; in that the armour of such a Susanoomon would have symbols of AncientKazemon and AncientMegatheriumon on the wrist and shin armour instead.
As each of the ten elements has (potentially) four seperate forms (Agunimon, BurningGreymon, Aldamon, and EmperorGreymon); then a Susanoomon could be created out of any combination of two of the elements.
This results in up to 90 different combinations that could each form a seperate Susanoomon (all with equal power levels).  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/91.111.67.62|91.111.67.62]] ([[User talk:91.111.67.62|talk]]) 15:47, 15 July 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

:Susanoomon is ''not'' a DNA Digivolution of EmperorGreymon and MagnaGarurumon. Rather, EmperorGreymon is the combination of the spirits of Fire, Ice, Wind, Earth, and Wood. MagnaGarurumon is the combination of the spirits of Light, Thunder, Darkness, Water, and Steel. Susanoomon is the fusion of all 10 spirits, ''not'' the fusion of EmperorGreymon and MagnaGarurumon themselves. In other words, the ''spirits'' are combined, not the digimon themselves. Toei just chose to have Susanoomon be represented by only Takuya and Koji.

:Also, I should note that DNA Digivolution is an Adventure 02 specific concept, and shouldn't really be applied to Frontier. In Frontier, almost all evolution is based on the Ancient Spirits, while in previous seasons, digivolution was based on the powers of the digimon and their partners—a concept that is not present in Frontier. [[User:Immortal Wowbagger|Immortal Wowbagger]] ([[User talk:Immortal Wowbagger|talk]]) 11:41, 11 August 2008 (UTC)

Actually it is not Adventure 02 Specific, but was used there the most.  Susanoomon is however more like the combination of KaiserGreymon's and MagnaGarurumon's parts. With the unused parts forming his weapon.

Granted there may be Susanoomons in the other universes infact i'd even says its probable sense hes supposed to have been around sense the digital world was created and lets not forget that those &quot;spirits&quot; were once living digimon but Susanoomon would still come out looking the same even if you did use another combination of the spirits to create new Ultimates/Megas and merge into Susanoomon he would still have the same helmets on his arms and the Zero Arms: Orochi would still be made out of the same armor and equipment as you would if it were KaiserGreymon and Magna Garurumon because your still using the same combonation of spirits its like saying im having toats with butter instead of buttered Toast  its the same thing.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/98.243.59.58|98.243.59.58]] ([[User talk:98.243.59.58|talk]]) 21:47, 28 February 2011 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== &quot;Takumi&quot; (Takuya/Zoe coupling) ==

To all who want to add anything along the lines of &quot;Zoe has feelings for Takuya by the end of the season&quot; or vice versa:

Granted, it is hinted a few times that Zoe has a crush on Takuya. However, this is ''not'' grounds to make a claim such as this. Unlike J.P.'s rather obvious crush, there is little to no evidence to base this claim on, since the &quot;Takuya/Zoe&quot; coupling is implied in only about two or three scenes.

There's also even less evidence to support a claim that Takuya returned those supposed &quot;feelings&quot;—the scenes in question only seem to hint at ''possible'', and I stress ''possible'' affection from Zoe.

Still, like I said, this is all full of implications and hints and interpretations, and has really no place on Wikipedia.

''Cross-posted to the [[Talk:Zoe Orimoto|Zoe]] talk page for obvious reasons.'' [[User:Immortal Wowbagger|Immortal Wowbagger]] ([[User talk:Immortal Wowbagger|talk]]) 22:16, 22 September 2008 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>