<article id="12476854" title=Talk:Caret (disambiguation)>
	<talkpage id="12476854" title="Talk:Caret (disambiguation)">
{{WikiProject Disambiguation}}

==Untitled==
I'm not too sure about the section on the secret government organisation. The IP who first added it openly claimed it was a 'stupid thing on the net' (I can't remember the exact words used, but along those lines), so it probably isn't that notable. Another IP expanded on this information, but I'm still not sure about the notability. Alternatively, it could just be a hoax. Either way, it's a no win situation. I've commented out the bullet point for the time being, but it needs discussing. [[User:CarrotMan|&lt;font color=&quot;0066cc&quot;&gt;Carrot&lt;/font&gt;]][[User talk:CarrotMan|&lt;font color=&quot;ff3333&quot;&gt;Man&lt;/font&gt;]] 07:44, 27 July 2007 (UTC)

[http://isaaccaret.fortunecity.com | This is the site]

== CARET entry ==

Forgive me if I am going about this the wrong way.  I am not new to reading wikipedia but I have never, until now, had something to say or a desire to edit/add something.  The Isaac/CARET phenomenon, that's all I can think of to call it, is comprised of many different elements and I don't know if the existing 'black project' listing on the Caret disambiguation page is either fair or accurate.  It may be many things and I think it deserves a section somewhere on this site but I wouldn't know where to start.  For example, there are many conspiracy and ufo, fringe sites if you prefer, where threads concerning this subject have generated hundreds of pages.  For the most part, these discussions have been logical and sincere which is why I think this Caret issue might have a place here.  Unfortunately, like I stated earlier, I have no idea how to create an article that could cover this issue fairly and, within the context of the subject, factually.  By factually I mean presenting the photographs, documents and text in an unbiased manner without forcing my own opinions or spin on it.  I dunno, I'll go have a look at the John Titor article and perhaps that will give me a starting point.  I appreciate any help in the meantime from anyone interested.

Thanks,
Matthew
[[User:IAMONE|IAMONE]] 01:05, 16 August 2007 (UTC)

== Support for the CARET entry ==

The Isaac and CARET story may indeed be a hoax. Yet it may still prove to be an interesting and notable article, however the account may be of fiction. A very good example of that, I believe, is the [[John Titor]] page. Therefore I think we should have a C.A.R.E.T. entry. I may start the article in the coming days.

Thanks,
Anonymous Coward  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/88.233.180.82|88.233.180.82]] ([[User talk:88.233.180.82|talk]]) 22:27, 5 January 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== &quot;Conspiracy&quot; hyperlink added ==
I have added an external link to the CARET &quot;conspiracy theory&quot; or whatever you want to call it.  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Apemannen|Apemannen]] ([[User talk:Apemannen|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Apemannen|contribs]]) 20:45, 21 August 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>