<article id="6320177" title=Talk:Baruch Samuel Blumberg>
	<talkpage id="6320177" title="Talk:Baruch Samuel Blumberg">
{{ITN talk|6 April|2011}}
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Biography|living=no|class=start|s&amp;a-work-group=yes|listas=Blumberg, Baruch S.|s&amp;a-priority=mid}}
{{WikiProject University of Oxford|class=Start|importance=high}}
{{WikiProject New York City|class=start|importance=mid}}
{{WikiProject Physiology |class=|importance=|field=}}
}}

== Article needs more information on Blumberg's primary achievement, the discovery and eventual development of a vaccine against, Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) ==

I haven't time to do it now, but one potential source is Baruch S. Blumberg's own account, Hepatitis B:The Hunt for a Killer Virus, Princeton University Press, NY, 2003.[See http://press.princeton.edu/titles/7248.html ].

Anyone at Columbia want to try?  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:FurnaldHall|FurnaldHall]] ([[User talk:FurnaldHall|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/FurnaldHall|contribs]]) 05:05, 20 February 2009 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

==External links==

I notice that there is no external links section on this page.
Please consider adding this link to an in depth video of Baruch Samuel Blumberg telling his life story. The video is freely available on the Web of Stories website (http://webofstories.com):

* [http://www.webofstories.com/gl/baruch.blumberg Baruch Blumberg] video at [http://webofstories.com Web of Stories]
[[User:Fitzrovia calling|Fitzrovia calling]] ([[User talk:Fitzrovia calling|talk]]) 16:01, 19 November 2010 (UTC)

== We also need more info on his later career ==

The “Scientific Career” section seems to consist of a couple sentences about Hepatitis B followed by a long list of institutional affiliations and mention of a meeting with children that does not assert notability. What did he ''do'' at all these institutions? Was the meeting notable in itself? Was it part of a pattern of behavior that illuminates his character? If so, that information needs to be included. If not, the reference should probably be removed.[[User:Dfeuer|Dfeuer]] ([[User talk:Dfeuer|talk]]) 04:20, 16 April 2011 (UTC)

==Reference for malaria quote==
I have come across several alleged quotes of Baruch Blumberg stating something like &quot;...half of all human deaths from the beginning of time can be attributed to malaria...&quot; (including [http://www.aaas.org/international/africa/malaria/gwadz.html this site]). However, I have been unable to find the original source. Does anyone know where I can find it? It might be nice to add it to this article, as well as the [[malaria]] one. --[[User:Thorwald|Thorwald]] ([[User talk:Thorwald|talk]]) 01:56, 18 February 2013 (UTC)
: ''Aspartic Acid Proteases as Therapeutic Targets'' by Ghosh et al. quotes him on this, but I can't get the reference on Google Books (it is omitted. --[[Special:Contributions/137.43.71.14|137.43.71.14]] ([[User talk:137.43.71.14|talk]]) 00:48, 10 April 2013 (UTC)

I believe the original source is the 1988 PBS documentary &quot;Plagues&quot;, which was hosted by Blumberg according to http://www.the-scientist.com/?articles.view/articleNo/9433/title/Baruch-Blumberg--Science-on-TV/  You'll notice this source says, &quot;may have contributed to as many as half&quot;, which is weaker than the form usually stated as fact these days.  Is this claim really plausible? [[User:Cfalls|Cfalls]] ([[User talk:Cfalls|talk]]) 14:37, 3 July 2014 (UTC)

== Changed The Fallacious Introduction ==

Before I made an account on here, I edited the introduction of this page because it stated that Dr. Blumberg had won his nobel prize for research into Kuru. This is not the case, Dr. Blumberg did not research Kuru. Dr. Blumberg won his nobel prize for his work on HBV. There is nothing in Blumberg's  autobiography or on the rest of the nobel prize site that indicates he did research into Kuru. The only thing that some might have mistakenly seen as suggesting that was his banquet speech, where he acknowledged the importance of investigating esoteric cultures to medical science that Dr. Gajdusek's work had demonstrated. He refers to this as &quot;our&quot; research because he is acknowledging that Gajdusek is a colleague and also because his own research had included scientific investigation in foreign lands. Co-recipient does not equal co-contributor. They both won the reward for their separate substantial contributions. [[User:WikiEditor4Accuracy|WikiEditor4Accuracy]] ([[User talk:WikiEditor4Accuracy|talk]]) 09:38, 4 November 2013 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>