<article id="1116435" title=Talk:JOSS>
	<talkpage id="1116435" title="Talk:JOSS">
{{WikiProject Computing
|class=Start
|importance=mid}}

Just so you know: 'JOSS In' is JOSS version I, sub-version n.

== disambig ==

I've removed this diambiguation notice from JOSS:

:''This article is on the programming language. See also [[religion in China]] and [[incense]], [[Joss Stone]] for the British female soul singer, or [[Joss Whedon]] for the television writer/producer''

I can't see the connection with [[religion in China]] and [[incense]] (neither use the word Joss), and I don't believe the personalities were known only by their first name.

[[User:Pengo|Pengo]] 23:23, 10 August 2005 (UTC)

* I came to the Talk page to say the exact same thing. I'm removing it until someone explains how they're relevant. - [[User:DNewhall|DNewhall]] ([[User talk:DNewhall|talk]]) 21:45, 3 February 2009 (UTC)

== A Few Comments on Joss -- by Alan Kay ==

A suggestion for this article would be to not use any modern conventions, but to follow Cliff Shaw's original Joss typography and UI as closely as possible. For example, Joss was done on a very nice converted IBM typewriter (made by Tom Ellis and others at RAND), typed on fan-fold 8.5x11 paper that was drilled for one's looseleaf notebook, and the user's input was typed in ''green'', with its replies typed in '''black''' and indented.

Another suggestion is to actually execute the Joss programs. It is annoying to have something nice like the Wikipedia, have a reasonable article about an early interactive language (like the ones on Joss and Logo) and not be able to try out examples even though we are reading the articles on a running computer that could execute them. JavaScript is more than capable for such examples, and I and a few friends decided to do a browser-only Logo embedded in a wiki to demonstrate how this could and should be. Go to LogoWiki (Don't! It's now a Russian site of some sort nothing to do with Logo) to try this. As of April 21st 2006 it is only a week old, but it should be pretty stable by the end of May.

Let's hope that the community will gradually make interpreters for the great programming languages and environments of the past!

:That would require that the specifications for those languages and interpreters be made available on-line to the community rather than buried in the RAND library. But I don't see the point -- just as we have far better environments than typewriters with green and black ribbons typing on fanfold paper, we have far better languages than JOSS and Logo, some with on-line interpreters, e.g., http://plaid.isri.cmu.edu:8080/plaidWebTerminal/plaid.cgi -- [[Special:Contributions/98.108.210.171|98.108.210.171]] ([[User talk:98.108.210.171|talk]]) 00:07, 30 October 2010 (UTC)

== Reference document number correction ==

Under References, the RAND report number of the &quot;JOSS Users' Reference Manual&quot; is  R-1555/9, not F-1535/9. After confirming the number with the RAND library, I made this correction. [[User:A. J. Rizzo|A. Rizzo]] ([[User talk:A. J. Rizzo|talk]]) 15:24, 23 April 2012 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>