<article id="18236273" title=User talk:Khet~enwiki>
	<talkpage id="18236273" title="User talk:Khet~enwiki">


== Welcome ==
'''Welcome!'''

Hello, {{BASEPAGENAME}}, and [[Wikipedia:Introduction|welcome]] to Wikipedia! Thank you for [[Special:Contributions/{{BASEPAGENAME}}|your contributions]]{{#if:|, especially what you did for [[{{{art}}}]]|}}. I hope you like the place and decide to stay. Here are some pages that you might find helpful:
*[[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
*[[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
*[[Wikipedia:How to edit a page|How to edit a page]]
*[[Wikipedia:Article development|How to write a great article]]
*[[Wikipedia:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]]
I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! Please [[Wikipedia:Signatures|sign]] your messages on [[Wikipedia:talk page|discussion page]]s using four [[tilde]]s (&lt;nowiki&gt;~~~~&lt;/nowiki&gt;); this will automatically insert your username and the date. If you need help, check out [[Wikipedia:Questions]], ask me on {{#if:Gary King|[[user talk:Gary King|my talk page]]|my talk page}}, or ask your question on this page and then place &lt;code&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;{{helpme}}&lt;/nowiki&gt;&lt;/code&gt; before the question. Again, welcome! &lt;!-- Template:Welcome --&gt; 
&lt;font face=&quot;Verdana&quot;&gt;[[User:Gary King|&lt;font color=&quot;#02e&quot;&gt;Gary&lt;/font&gt;&amp;nbsp;&lt;font color=&quot;#02b&quot;&gt;&lt;b&gt;King&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/font&gt;]]&amp;nbsp;([[User talk:Gary King|&lt;font color=&quot;#02e&quot;&gt;talk&lt;/font&gt;]])&lt;/font&gt; 22:26, 1 July 2008 (UTC)

== Your account will be renamed ==

&lt;div class=&quot;plainlinks mw-content-ltr&quot; lang=&quot;en&quot; dir=&quot;ltr&quot;&gt;
Hello,

The developer team at Wikimedia is making some changes to how accounts work, as part of our on-going efforts to provide new and better tools for our users like cross-wiki notifications. These changes will mean you have the same account name everywhere. This will let us give you new features that will help you edit and discuss better, and allow more flexible user permissions for tools. One of the side-effects of this is that user accounts will now have to be unique across all 900 Wikimedia wikis. See [[m:Special:MyLanguage/Single User Login finalisation announcement|the announcement]] for more information.

Unfortunately, your account clashes with another account also called Khet. To make sure that both of you can use all Wikimedia projects in future, we have reserved the name Khet~enwiki that only you will have. If you like it, you don't have to do anything. If you do not like it, you can [[Special:GlobalRenameRequest|pick out a different name]]. If you think you might own all of the accounts with this name and this message is in error, please visit [[Special:MergeAccount]] to check and attach all of your accounts to prevent them from being renamed.

Your account will still work as before, and you will be credited for all your edits made so far, but you will have to use the new account name when you log in.

Sorry for the inconvenience.

Yours,&lt;br /&gt;[[m:User:Keegan (WMF)|Keegan Peterzell]]&lt;br /&gt;Community Liaison, Wikimedia Foundation
&lt;/div&gt; 01:08, 20 March 2015 (UTC)
&lt;!-- SUL finalisation notification --&gt;

== Renamed ==

&lt;div class=&quot;plainlinks mw-content-ltr&quot; lang=&quot;en&quot; dir=&quot;ltr”&gt;
This account has been renamed as part of [[m:Special:MyLanguage/Single User Login finalisation announcement|single-user login finalisation]]. If you own this account you can [[{{#special:userlogin}}|log in using your previous username and password]] for more information. If you do not like this account's new name, you can choose your own using this form after logging in: [[{{#special:GlobalRenameRequest}}]]. -- [[m:User:Keegan (WMF)|Keegan (WMF)]] ([[m:User talk:Keegan (WMF)|talk]])
&lt;/div&gt; 14:58, 22 April 2015 (UTC)
&lt;!-- SUL post-rename notification --&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>