<article id="30316888" title=Talk:Unregistered trademark>
	<talkpage id="30316888" title="Talk:Unregistered trademark">
{{talkheader}}
{{Image requested|business &amp; economic topics|law and crime topics}}
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|
{{WikiProject Business &amp; Economics|class=stub|importance=}}
{{WikiProject Law|class=stub|importance=}}
{{WikiProject History}}
}}
==Heavy edits needed==
This article has lots of grammar problems, is factually inaccurate, and seems like it might also be a plug for a business. Suggest major overhaul or deletion. Jordan 19:02, 6 July 2011 (UTC)  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Jordanotto|Jordanotto]] ([[User talk:Jordanotto|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Jordanotto|contribs]]) &lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

I'll look at this in more detail next week, hopefully. I need to research the topic anyway, so I may as well update the article here. I think the topic itself is relevant and pertinent, just needs proper and well-rounded content. I am hence against deletion. by [[User:Roubo|Roubo]] ([[User talk:Roubo|talk]]) 11:34, 8 July 2011 (UTC)
== Copyright problem removed ==

Prior content in this article duplicated one or more previously published sources. The material was copied from: http://www.tm-india.com/unregistered-trademark/. Infringing material has been rewritten or removed and must not be restored, ''unless'' it is duly released under a compatible license. (For more information, please see [[Wikipedia:COPYRIGHT#Using_copyrighted_work_from_others|&quot;using copyrighted works from others&quot;]] if you are not the copyright holder of this material, or [[Wikipedia:Donating copyrighted materials|&quot;donating copyrighted materials&quot;]] if you are.) For [[Wikipedia:Copyrights|legal reasons]], we cannot accept [[Wikipedia:Copyrights|copyrighted]] text or images borrowed from other web sites or published material; such additions will be deleted. Contributors may use copyrighted publications as a source of ''information'', but not as a source of ''sentences'' or ''phrases''. Accordingly, the material ''may'' be rewritten, but only if it does not infringe on the copyright of the original ''or'' [[Wikipedia:Plagiarism|plagiarize]] from that source. Please see our [[Wikipedia:NFC#Text|guideline on non-free text]] for how to properly implement limited quotations of copyrighted text. Wikipedia takes copyright violations very seriously, and persistent violators '''will''' be [[Wikipedia:Blocking policy|blocked]] from editing. While we appreciate contributions, we must require all contributors to understand and comply with these policies. Thank you. &lt;!-- Template:Cclean --&gt; &lt;font color=&quot;navy&quot;&gt;[[User:January|January]]&lt;/font&gt; &lt;small&gt;(&lt;font color=&quot;navy&quot;&gt;[[User talk:January|talk]]&lt;/font&gt;)&lt;/small&gt; 17:15, 11 September 2011 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>