<article id="17592762" title=Talk:Denys Page>
	<talkpage id="17592762" title="Talk:Denys Page">
{{WikiProject Biography
|living=no
|class=
|listas=Page, Denys
}}
==Notability==
A knighthood, fellowship of the British Academy and being the subject of a DNB article all argue to notability. [[User:DuncanHill|DuncanHill]] ([[User talk:DuncanHill|talk]]) 14:31, 24 May 2008 (UTC)

: A British academy fellowship certainly; a knighthood, arguably not these days it would depend on what the grounds for award were (after all is every Sir Civil Servant notable?) DNB, again debatable, it's a listing sure, but without more details it's hard to judge. The addition of the fellowship was enough for me to pull the speedy tag, which was added when there was very little information at all. However note that the full dnb listing used as a reference requires a login; so should be replaced with a free information source anyone can view. --[[User:Blowdart|Blowdart]] | [[User talk:Blowdart|''&lt;sup&gt;talk&lt;/sup&gt;'']] 14:38, 24 May 2008 (UTC)

::The DNB is freely accessible to anyone with a local-authority library card from the UK, and through inter-library agreements at many public libraries and educational establishments worldwide. [[User:DuncanHill|DuncanHill]] ([[User talk:DuncanHill|talk]]) 14:42, 24 May 2008 (UTC)

::: So not open to all then. I have an athens account myself, but the fact there is a barrier to entry means it is not that useful a useful citation and a free and open one would be better. --[[User:Blowdart|Blowdart]] | [[User talk:Blowdart|''&lt;sup&gt;talk&lt;/sup&gt;'']] 15:24, 24 May 2008 (UTC) 

He was an academic not a civil servant. His notability is obvious.  [[User:Tiddly pop|Tiddly pop]] ([[User talk:Tiddly pop|talk]]) 14:59, 24 May 2008 (UTC)
: I think you assume to much is obvious, hence the original tagging. Once more justification was added it went away. --[[User:Blowdart|Blowdart]] | [[User talk:Blowdart|''&lt;sup&gt;talk&lt;/sup&gt;'']] 15:24, 24 May 2008 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>