<article id="30328255" title=Talk:Time in Ireland>
	<talkpage id="30328255" title="Talk:Time in Ireland">
{{WikiProject Ireland|class= start|importance= low}}
== WWII ==

Currently, and before WWII, I am fairly sure that there was no civil time step when crossing what is now the land boundary of Northern Ireland.  During WWII, and in one later year, the UK of GB &amp; NI had Double Summer Time.  I don't know what the Republic did - but the article should certainly address the point. [[Special:Contributions/94.30.84.71|94.30.84.71]] ([[User talk:94.30.84.71|talk]]) 18:17, 15 May 2011 (UTC)

== Dublin Time ==

[[Dublin Mean Time]], used up to 1916, needs mentioning. [[Special:Contributions/94.30.84.71|94.30.84.71]] ([[User talk:94.30.84.71|talk]]) 18:19, 15 May 2011 (UTC)

== Standard Time ==

A while ago, I thought, and failed to verify, that the Republic sets its clocks back from its Standard Time for the winter, rather than by putting them forward for the Summer.  Either a specific explicit reference should be given, or the point marked as doubtful.  Also, the Irish are now obliged to apply EU rules, and may have re-legislated or need to. [[Special:Contributions/94.30.84.71|94.30.84.71]] ([[User talk:94.30.84.71|talk]]) 18:27, 15 May 2011 (UTC)

I'm going to change the reference to &quot;most states&quot; to &quot;other states&quot;, since all of European EU changes clocks the same way at the same time, give or take the differences between GMT &amp; UTC, and between Law and Practice. [[Special:Contributions/94.30.84.71|94.30.84.71]] ([[User talk:94.30.84.71|talk]]) 18:27, 15 May 2011 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>