<article id="8217754" title=Talk:Sheffield Pike>
	<talkpage id="8217754" title="Talk:Sheffield Pike">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Lancashire and Cumbria|class=C|importance=low}}
{{WikiProject UK geography|class=B|importance=Low}}
{{WikiProject British and Irish hills|class=B}}
}}

'''While editing the Topography section''', two corrections were made: 

1st, &quot;The Rake&quot; is not the name of a col, but of a path - see the article [[Glenridding Dodd]] for reasons. 

2nd, The yawning chasms on the east side of Green Side may not be entirely the results of quarrying (as the map claims), but the result of a massive collapse in the Greenside Mine in 1862 known as The Great Crush. Since this is not actually relevant to this article on Sheffield Pike I have not given a citation (but see http://www.mineexplorer.org.uk/greenside.htm), but I hope to add the details to a future page on the Greenside Mine. [[User:Silence-is-infinite|Silence-is-infinite]] ([[User talk:Silence-is-infinite|talk]]) 17:11, 12 January 2014 (UTC)

'''In the Geology and Mining section''', many details about the Greenside Mine belong to a page which covers Green Side, which is where the lead vein was located, not on Sheffield Pike. Some surface features of the mine, especially the extensive spoil heaps, do belong to Sheffield Pike. For now I have left all the material in place, but I hope to move and expand the information about the mine to a future page on the Greenside Mine. [[User:Silence-is-infinite|Silence-is-infinite]] ([[User talk:Silence-is-infinite|talk]]) 17:53, 12 January 2014 (UTC)

'''Summit and View section''': Omitted the doubts about the provenance of the stone boundary marker, given that they were based only on an argument from silence. The marker certainly belonged somewhere on the ridge, and the summit seems as good a place as any. [[User:Silence-is-infinite|Silence-is-infinite]] ([[User talk:Silence-is-infinite|talk]]) 11:13, 18 March 2014 (UTC)

'''Geology and Mining section''': Omitted references to the use of the mine to study shock waves from underground explosions. This belongs to a (future) page on the Greenside Mine rather than a page on Sheffield Pike. I have tried to limit information about the mine on this page to what is most relevant for Sheffield Pike. [[User:Silence-is-infinite|Silence-is-infinite]] ([[User talk:Silence-is-infinite|talk]]) 11:50, 18 March 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>