<article id="5793990" title=Talk:DavisWiki>
	<talkpage id="5793990" title="Talk:DavisWiki">
{{WikiProject Computing|class=Stub|importance=low|software=yes}}
{{WikiProject California|class=stub|importance=low}}

==question with no header==
why no artcle?
this is the biggest Citywiki in the world ( in de.wikipedia ) the 2. largest has an article : [[de:Stadtwiki Karlsruhe]]
: [[Stadtwiki Karlsruhe]]  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/91.89.174.246|91.89.174.246]] ([[User talk:91.89.174.246|talk]]) 15:47, 7 October 2010 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== karlsruhe ==

The Karlsruhe citiwiki is bigger now. Oh well. &lt;span style=&quot;background-color:black&quot;&gt;[[User:TrogdorPolitiks|&lt;font color=&quot;red&quot;&gt;Heavy Metal Cellist&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:TrogdorPolitiks|&lt;font color=&quot;red&quot;&gt;talk&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;sub&gt;[[Special:Contributions/TrogdorPolitiks|&lt;font color=&quot;red&quot;&gt;contribs&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;/sub&gt;&lt;/span&gt;

While page count is a flawed metric for determining wiki &quot;size&quot; (and especially for determining goodness!), it's worth noting that the stadtwiki has many thousands of machine-generated pages, such as http://ka.stadtwiki.net/1414.  A case could be made that the Davis Wiki is much larger in terms of true content.

:[[Karlsruhe:1414]] is no bot-generated content, it's a page like [[1414]]. On the other hand, there are over 17.000 articles (and only 700 articles about years).
:[[Karlsruhe:]] uses the same software Wikipedia does. So you would call Wikipedias numbers non-true content? -- [[User:Kawana|Kawana]] ([[User talk:Kawana|talk]]) 10:20, 22 January 2009 (UTC)

== the type of non point of view ==

The Daviswiki's attempts at full discussion of topics to arrive at 'non point of view' articles, is rather a full discussion of the various points of view to present that in a community 'point of view' matters.  In an Encyclopedia such as wikipedia, the way of arriving at npov is likely both more manageable and more proper.  [[User:Rocksanddirt|Rocksanddirt]] 19:06, 14 June 2007 (UTC)

== Sources ==

If someone had access to archives or could find a free online archive of these news articles, they could be used as sources: 
*[http://nl.newsbank.com/nl-search/we/Archives?p_product=WDDB&amp;p_theme=wddb&amp;p_action=search&amp;p_maxdocs=200&amp;p_topdoc=1&amp;p_text_direct-0=118830AEEFD744C8&amp;p_field_direct-0=document_id&amp;p_perpage=10&amp;p_sort=YMD_date:D&amp;s_trackval=GooglePM Wise up to the Wiki], - [[Daily Democrat]]
*[http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1P1-126810973.html UC-Davis alumnus-funded site holds event ] - University Wire
*[http://nl.newsbank.com/nl-search/we/Archives?p_product=SB&amp;p_theme=sb&amp;p_action=search&amp;p_maxdocs=200&amp;p_topdoc=1&amp;p_text_direct-0=11CF4A1A69B696C0&amp;p_field_direct-0=document_id&amp;p_perpage=10&amp;p_sort=YMD_date:D&amp;s_trackval=GooglePM Wiki worlds flourishing for local communities] - [[Sacramento Bee]]
*[http://nl.newsbank.com/nl-search/we/Archives?p_product=SB&amp;p_theme=sb&amp;p_action=search&amp;p_maxdocs=200&amp;p_topdoc=1&amp;p_text_direct-0=115F3B04E995A140&amp;p_field_direct-0=document_id&amp;p_perpage=10&amp;p_sort=YMD_date:D&amp;s_trackval=GooglePM Web site has scoop on Davis community Davis Wiki allows users to add and edit listings on everything from city politics to the best places in town for a date] - [[Sacramento Bee]]

And [http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/technology/article819320.ece this] article is still up, which could be used to source some stuff. There's probably a lot more, just use [http://news.google.com/archivesearch?q=daviswiki&amp;btnG=Search+Archives&amp;scoring=a this search]. [[User:Killiondude|Killiondude]] ([[User talk:Killiondude|talk]]) 19:05, 9 June 2010 (UTC)

== Wikispot farm/ Wikispot charitable foundation ==
The [[Wikispot]] page has been removed for not being notable enough.  But there seems to be some confusion.  Because Wikispot is two things a wiki farm and a charitable foundation.

It me it seems Wikispot is an integral part of the Davis Wiki.  If it doesn't deserve its own own page then surely a section here would be appropriate? It is notable for it unique funding method and relative success.

The following was removed on the grounds that this page is about Davis Wiki-

'''WikiSpot''' is the [[Wiki Farm]] that hosts the DavisWiki and other local community and topic specific wikis.&lt;ref&gt;[http://wikispot.org/Wiki_Directory WikiSpot Directory]&lt;/ref&gt; WikiSpot neither charges for its hosting or has advertising, but the content should not be for commercial gain.

WikiSpot runs on [[Sycamore (software)|Sycamore]], a [[wiki software|software package]] forked from [[Python (programming language)|python]]-based [[MoinMoin]]. The user interface is simple and it does not offer WYSIWYG. A 'quick edit' feature allows the user to double-click on a paragraph to edit it directly.&lt;ref&gt;[http://www.wikimatrix.org/show/Sycamore Wikimatrix.org]&lt;/ref&gt;

[[User:Jonpatterns|Jonpatterns]] ([[User talk:Jonpatterns|talk]]) 11:06, 2 January 2014 (UTC)

== POV-Statement tag in ==Neutral POV?== ==

For transparency, I volunteer for LocalWiki, the nonprofit whose founders started DavisWiki. Here is the statement I flagged: 

&lt;blockquote&gt;Davis Wiki includes long discussions on its pages regarding local politics, local elections, development, city policies and similar material. This is a bit counter to many wikis, which strive for a neutral point of view in all articles.&lt;/blockquote&gt;

This sounds to me like an opinion, not a fact. A wiki is a web application, and there are no innate rules that dictate neutrality. Rather, rules are outlined by the shepherds of the wiki (in the case of Wikipedia, the Wikimedia Foundation and Wikipedians). I sense that the writer may have been giving undue weight to the Wikipedia example when making the strong correlation between NPOV and wikis. 

I will abstain from editing the article since I volunteer for LocalWiki, but wanted to start a conversation on the topic. :] [[User:Eekiv|Eekiv]] 22:26, 25 August 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>