<article id="999407" title=Talk:Pleiades>
	<talkpage id="999407" title="Talk:Pleiades">
{{ArticleHistory|action1=PR
|action1date=01:33, 16 October 2005
|action1link=Wikipedia:Peer review/Pleiades (star cluster)/archive1
|action1result=reviewed
|action1oldid=25599049

|action2=GAN
|action2date=22:22, 16 December 2005
|action2result=listed
|action2oldid=31661319

|action3=GAR
|action3date=March 2, 2009
|action3result=Kept
|action3oldid=274590643
|action3link=Talk:Pleiades (star cluster)#GA Sweeps Review: Pass

|currentstatus=GA
|topic=Natsci
}}
{{Vital article|level=4|topic=Science|class=GA|subpage=Physics}}
{{WikiProject Astronomy|object=yes|constellations=yes|class=GA|importance=top}}
{{Wikipedia CD selection}}

== No comment on the book of Job? ==
 It(The Bible) is a human artifact, has been exhaustively corroborated for textual authenticity more than any other ancient writ, and it demonstrates some insight beyond what we understand could have been known at the time. Job 38:31-32:

&quot;Canst thou bind the sweet influences of Pleiades, or loose the bands of Orion? Canst thou bring forth Mazzaroth in his season? or canst thou guide Arcturus with his sons?&quot;

Shouldn't scientific objectivity factor the book of Job, for the information it adds to the discussion, without censoring it out due to theophobia?

The implication of the text is that the bands (&quot;belt&quot;) of Orion, the three stars, are drifting apart. The God of the book of Job is essentially saying to Job, &quot;you're asking me questions? what do you know? I can force the stars in Orion's belt to drift apart, can you?&quot; Further, that the stars of Pleiades are fixed together, asking in essence &quot;I can hold Pleiades's stars from drifting apart, can you?&quot;

Dismissing the notion of God, how would the ancient writer of Job have had the insight that the stars in Orion's belt are drifting apart, while the stars in Pleiades will remain in their relative positions indefinitely?  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/76.69.37.102|76.69.37.102]] ([[User talk:76.69.37.102|talk]]) 03:02, 18 February 2012 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

==Move==
I moved the page back to [[Pleiades (star cluster)]], because they're just called the Pleiades, not the Pleiades Open Cluster.  Have cleaned the article up quite a bit but will leave it to other users to decide if the cleanup tag should stay or go.  [[User:Worldtraveller|Worldtraveller]] 19:23, 19 Sep 2004 (UTC)
:Looks good, fixed a few minor errors, deleted the cleanup tag :) --[[User:Ilikeverin|Ilikeverin]] 22:32, 16 Dec 2004 (UTC)

== etymology ==

Uhm, doesn't &quot;pleiades&quot; mean &quot;daughters of pleione&quot;, and &quot;pleione&quot; being the sea nymph who (presumably) protected those who sailed?
:This seems to most obvious meaning to me too. All I can guess is that the name may have predated the myth, which would make this a [[folk etymology]]? I've added this speculation, but commented it out pending confirmation. Sure wish sources were [[Wikipedia:cite sources|cited]]! [[User:Lusanaherandraton|Lusanaherandraton]] 01:26, 28 July 2005 (UTC)

The Greek poetess Sappho mentions the Pleiades, and the fragments that exist of the writing show it in ancient Greek characters.  

An image appears at http://bp2.blogger.com/_Rs_uJzqkj0M/SJZLZRVh6kI/AAAAAAAAAIM/ZkijzHzxIzU/s400/Selanna.jpg .
[[User:SyntheticET|SyntheticET]] ([[User talk:SyntheticET|talk]]) 16:43, 17 December 2011 (UTC)

== pronunciation ==

Pronunciations based on the OED, the glossary of Robert Fagles' translation of ''the Odyssey'', and The Zimmerman's ''Dictionary of Classical Mythology'' (Harper &amp; Row, 1964). 

--[[User:Kwamikagami|kwami]]

== variant names (A)sterope ==

In the underlying text, there is also the name Sterope. (You'll need to edit to see it.) In mythology this is a variant of Asterope, but they are associated with different stars here. There are several traditions of which star is which Pleiad, and I've seen different star guides which disagree. I don't know whether the modern astronomical community recognizes both names, or uses them to disambiguate more stars than they could otherwise. Maybe someone who knows could add a comment? 

--[[User:Kwamikagami|kwami]]

:[http://simbad.u-strasbg.fr SIMBAD], the astronomical name database, does not contain an entry for Sterope, but has Asterope as the name for 21 Tauri.  I found a web page which says Sterope is 22 Tauri, but SIMBAD doesn't agree.  I'd say SIMBAD is authoritative on these things, and so the name Sterope does not appear to be an official name for any of the Pleiades. [[User:Worldtraveller|Worldtraveller]] 13:39, 28 Feb 2005 (UTC)

::The Bright Star Catalogue (Hoffleit 1991) lists &quot;Asterope&quot; and &quot;Sterope I&quot; as alternate names for 21 Tau and &quot;Sterope II&quot; as an alternate name for 22 Tau.  I'm not sure why those didn't make it into SIMBAD, but I would consider that authoritative. -- [[User:Ketiltrout|Ketil Trout]] 10:31, 16 September 2005 (UTC)

== Erroneous dust ==
Can someone with the information ''please'' cite a source for the last sentence of the introduction? I haven't read anything that suggests the reflection nebulae are unassociated with the cluster, though admittedly I don't/can't read everything. :) —[[User:ZorkFox|ZorkFox]] 04:13, 17 October 2005 (UTC)
:Source is Gibson, listed in refs and cited in the main section on the reflection nebulosity. [[User:Worldtraveller|Worldtraveller]] 08:55, 17 October 2005 (UTC)
:I just really wanted to say that &quot;Nebulosity&quot; is now my new favorite word. [[User:Flowbiscuit|flowbiscuit]]  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/205.234.157.129|205.234.157.129]] ([[User talk:205.234.157.129|talk]]) 19:43, 21 July 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Plural of kelvins ==
Stop deleting the referenced, verifiable standard plural kelvins.  Not only have I cited reputable references from the standards-keepers at [[BIPM]] and [[NIST]], but it is also covered in the internal article at [[kelvin]].  Try these examples as well:
*Google[http://www.google.com/search?as_q=kelvins&amp;num=100&amp;hl=en&amp;btnG=Google+Search&amp;as_epq=&amp;as_oq=&amp;as_eq=&amp;lr=&amp;as_ft=i&amp;as_filetype=&amp;as_qdr=all&amp;as_occt=any&amp;as_dt=i&amp;as_sitesearch=americanscientist.org&amp;as_rights=&amp;safe=off]] kelvins site:americanscientist.org
* http://www.astro.ucla.edu/~meierd/papers/dwarf32.pdf
* http://www.camk.edu.pl/~olech/papers/art/m55.pdf 
* http://www.astro.ucla.edu/~lucian/papers/dwarf.co.pdf 
* http://www.williams.edu/Astronomy/Cosmos/updates/chapter11_cosmos.html 
* http://www.astro.uu.nl/~rutten/rrtex/bibfiles/ads/abs/linsky.txt
Need more? You've offered absolutely nothing to support any contrary standard, just bald unsupported nonsense in your edit summaries, [[User:Worldtraveller|Worldtraveller]]. [[User:Gene Nygaard|Gene Nygaard]] 20:33, 28 February 2006 (UTC)

==Layout issues==

Worldtraveller, whatever you are doing, you are messing up the format of the page.  Every time you jump into this revert war, you push the last table into the Folklore section, where it certainly isn't supposed to be.  Quite apart from that, it jumbles up everything in that section and looks perfectly dreadful.  This is not good for this page.  [[User:NaySay|NaySay]] 06:11, 1 March 2006 (UTC)

:Apologies if it was me, but I'm not sure if it might not be some display issue with your screen resolution, NaySay, because on my screen here the table appears in its proper place in all recent revisions of the article.  [[User:Worldtraveller|Worldtraveller]] 13:20, 1 March 2006 (UTC)

::Ah.  Well, I edited the page so that it looks good on my screen.  Would you take a look at it to be certain I haven't messed it up on yours?  I've got my  17&quot; monitor on 1024 x 768, in Windows ME, and I use Netscape.  I would hate to think that I made things worse.  I hope we can resolve he problem.  Thanks. [[User:NaySay|NaySay]] 16:34, 1 March 2006 (UTC)

:::Well it's probably a bit subjective, but I've edited the image position to try and make it look as good as possible on the two screens I have easily available at the moment, one 17&quot; monitor at 1280x1024 and one 15&quot; at 800x600, with firefox on both.  It looks good to me right now - how about you? [[User:Worldtraveller|Worldtraveller]] 01:09, 2 March 2006 (UTC)

::::Thank you, Worldtraveller.  It looks fine on mine as well.  I think the problem's licked. [[User:NaySay|NaySay]] 15:32, 3 March 2006 (UTC)

== Distance ==

The second paragraph of the introduction is very confusing. What's the big deal about the Pleiades in particular that makes our whole scale of distance depend on them?  This should be explained.  A simple &quot;because they are so close&quot; or &quot;because they are the  closest open cluster&quot; whould help to clarify, but I don't want to change it because I'm not an expert and don't really know.  The paragraph on the subject of distance further down the page explains it a little bit, but could do more. Thanks.--[[User:345Kai|345Kai]] 12:37, 8 April 2006 (UTC)
:I tried to clear it up and I took most of the paragraph in the lead out since it was more or less repeated further down anyways.--[[User:Kalsermar|Kalsermar]] 16:18, 8 April 2006 (UTC)
::Lead sections are a summary of the article content, so the information in them is always repeated further down.  I've restored a lengthier second para of the intro and tried to clarify as requested.  [[User:Worldtraveller|Worldtraveller]] 17:11, 8 April 2006 (UTC)

'''Time to update this section?'''

There's been some recent news on this front, as reported in Sky &amp; Telescope here:
http://www.skyandtelescope.com/community/skyblog/newsblog/10188476.html
Basically, the Hipparcos data was exhaustively reanalyzed (it took ten years of work),
and while the recomputed Hipparcos positions are now believed to be much more accurate,
they still conflict with the distances obtained by other methods. The reanalyzed distance
from the Hipparcos data is 399+/-6 light-years, vs. 440+/-7 and 439 ± 10 by two other
methods. This is all summarized in the S&amp;T link above, with references to the 3 detailed
studies. However, since I'm not really an astronomy type, and very inexperienced with the Wiki,
I'm hoping someone else will boil this info down into the Wikipedia article. [[User:Macchess|Macchess]] ([[User talk:Macchess|talk]]) 05:01, 27 January 2008 (UTC)

-------------
The &quot;Distance&quot; section of this article has bothered me for years. All this text here -- &quot;''The distance to the Pleiades can be used as an important first step to calibrate the cosmic distance ladder. As the cluster is so close to the Earth, its distance is relatively easy to measure and has been estimated by many methods. Accurate knowledge of the distance allows astronomers to plot a Hertzsprung-Russell diagram for the cluster, which, when compared to those plotted for clusters whose distance is not known, allows their distances to be estimated. Other methods can then extend the distance scale from open clusters to galaxies and clusters of galaxies, and a cosmic distance ladder can be constructed. Ultimately astronomers' understanding of the age and future evolution of the universe is influenced by their knowledge of the distance to the Pleiades.''&quot; -- is included with absolutely no supporting citations. I believe it may be a relic from the early days of Wikipedia when sweeping statements often went unsourced.

Sadly, the text I quoted is incorrect in almost every way. First, &quot;the cosmic distance ladder&quot; does not rely on the distance to the Pleiades -- check out the current iteration of that Wiki page of that name. The Pleiades are not even mentioned. Second, the distance to the Pleiades has NEVER been precisely known, and even today it remains a matter of debate, as the rest of this Distance section informs us. Third, as the Cosmic Distance Ladder page (and a basic astronomy textbook) will tell you, distance measurements have historically depended on parallax measurements (for nearby objects) and on the luminosity of Cepheid variables and supernovae (for more remote objects), with more and more points of reference emerging as astronomical research progresses.

The quoted text is followed by an attempt at a disclaimer: &quot;Yet some authors argue that the controversy over the distance to the Pleiades discussed below is a red herring, since the cosmic distance ladder can (presently) rely on a suite of other nearby clusters where consensus exists regarding . . . .&quot; This sentence includes a supporting citation, and the information it provides seems very trustworthy.

I move that the 5 italicized sentences that I quoted be deleted, and that the next block of text be modified to accommodate that deletion. As I've argued, all the stuff about the Pleiades being important to the measurement of cosmic distances is simply wrong. Unsourced misinformation of this kind has no place in Wikipedia.

I'll see if anybody has a counter-argument. If not, I will delete the erroneous text within the next 30 days.[[User:Thuvan Dihn|Thuvan Dihn]] ([[User talk:Thuvan Dihn|talk]]) 22:46, 10 July 2012 (UTC)

== Native Americans header ==

I'd quote all the erroneous statements, but it's far too much to even bother... But what the f*** does all but the first paragraph have to do with native Americans? I'm a member of the Cherokee tribe myself and was slightly curious if some of the nonsense I sometimes hear from other Cherokees about the tribe regarding Pleiades is mentioned. Instead, I get treated to a treatise about Asian bulls*** within the Native Americans section... not that I have anything against Asia, it's just it has about as much place in this particular section as talks about oranges have to do in an article about Mars. - Lucy Aniwaya 5:33, September 24, 2006 (UTC)


I add that it's written in the &quot;Book of the Hopi&quot; (Penguin Books, 1963) (See Wiki Hopi Mythology [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hopi_mythology]]  by respected anthropological historian Frank Waters) that although children and non-initiates are commonly told that the spirits of their Katchinas return annually to the San Francisco Peaks in Arizona, those of higher religious rank are taught that the Katchina dolls actually represent long-departed extraterrestrial beings who came to the Hopis' ancestors from (or from the direction of) the Pleiades in the far distant past and taught them much about farming and living in general. I can't cite the page, but I distinctly recall reading this. Frank Waters based his book on hours and hours of interviews with mainly three Hopi elders who broke a time-trusted tradition of secrecy in order to preserve Hopi ethnic history in grave danger of becoming completely forgotten. 
I for one, would be fascinated to hear if passed-down Cherokee Pleiades stories are similar to this only brief sentence or two which has stuck with me for many years since reading &quot;Book of the Hopi.&quot; –Michael A. Storer May 5, 2010.

== &quot;Not the sign!&quot; confusion ==

Can anyone explain why it is important to provide the distinction in the &quot;Astrological predictions&quot; section about the constellation v. the astrological sign? It seems odd to me that in an article about astronomy anyone would have difficulty understanding we were talking about a constellation, not the new-age predictive mystical force. Since it says &quot;Not the sign!&quot; pretty much every Saggitarius or Gemini is mentioned, it is kind of confusing and distracting, and unless it really is providing a useful distinction should maybe be deleted. &lt;small&gt;—The preceding [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|unsigned]] comment was added by [[Special:Contributions/12.172.32.236|12.172.32.236]] ([[User talk:12.172.32.236|talk]]) 21:32, 12 January 2007 (UTC).&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- HagermanBot Auto-Unsigned --&gt;

== Deleted Astrological Cr*p ==

Deleted Astrological Cr*p &lt;small&gt;—The preceding [[Wikipedia:Sign your posts on talk pages|unsigned]] comment was added by [[Special:Contributions/194.176.105.40|194.176.105.40]] ([[User talk:194.176.105.40|talk]]) 10:32, 2 March 2007 (UTC).&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- HagermanBot Auto-Unsigned --&gt;

== Six or Seven Sisters ==
I recently read an piece on the Pleiades (in a book called &quot;Beyond the Blue Sky&quot; or something like it) that hypothesizes why many cultures attach the number 7 to the cluster, although only 6 stars are readily visible -- and likewise find ways to explain why one is not visible.  I do not think it is worthy enough for the article, but I shall summarize it here: The Pleides looks like a minature version of the [[Big Dipper]] which has seven bright stars, and therefore ideally should be a dipper in minature -- hence it should have seven stars.  Some legends make overt references to the Dipper, many do not.  A Babylonian(?) legend states they are the divorced wives of six of the stars of the Dipper -- except for the star Alcor, who was not divorced, and therefore still with her husband (represented by [[Mizar]]).  &amp;mdash; [[User:Eoghanacht|&lt;font color=&quot;green&quot;&gt;''Eoghanacht''&lt;/font&gt;]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User_talk:Eoghanacht|&lt;font color=&quot;gray&quot;&gt;talk&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;/sup&gt; 20:40, 14 May 2007 (UTC)

[[Ptolemy]] mapped 38 stars and [[Tycho Brahe]] 42 stars of the Pleiades cluster, by eye, according to the 1911 Encyclopedia Britannica. --[[User:Diamonddavej|Diamonddavej]] ([[User talk:Diamonddavej|talk]]) 01:00, 27 November 2007 (UTC)

&quot;What is the seventh sister is earth's sun.  You are confused about the way of evolution inside the galaxy. Creation is simply deemed for you to exist or not to exist. To create is a coincidence. To be born of the same seed and exist is not.&quot;  -Sigrun, with channeled thought through  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/Murriemir|Murriemir]] ([[User talk:Murriemir|talk]]) 17:07, 7 January 2012 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== disambig ==

Why is the page, [[Pleiades]], a disambig page? I'm willing to bet that 90% of people who type that in are looking for the open cluster, not the random BS that's also listed on the disambig page. -[[User:69.47.186.226|69.47.186.226]] 21:31, 28 July 2007 (UTC)
:Moved. [[Pleiades]] now redirects here. [[User:Feezo|Feezo]] &lt;FONT SIZE=&quot;-2&quot;&gt;[[User_talk:Feezo|(Talk)]]&lt;/FONT&gt; 18:56, 18 August 2007 (UTC)
::This appears to have been &lt;span class=&quot;plainlinks&quot;&gt;[https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/w/index.php?title=Pleiades_%28star_cluster%29&amp;diff=263501999&amp;oldid=263499339 undone]&lt;/span&gt;, with no consensus that I can see. If no one objects, I will move it back. &lt;span style=&quot;font-family: Palatino Linotype, Book Antiqua, Palatino, serif;&quot; color=&quot;#BBAED0&quot;&gt;[[User:Feezo|Feezo]] &lt;font size=&quot;-2&quot;&gt;[[User_talk:Feezo|(send a signal]] | [[Special:Contributions/Feezo|watch the sky]])&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/span&gt; 10:08, 21 May 2011 (UTC)
::Restored. &lt;span style=&quot;font-family: Palatino Linotype, Book Antiqua, Palatino, serif;&quot; color=&quot;#BBAED0&quot;&gt;[[User:Feezo|Feezo]] &lt;font size=&quot;-2&quot;&gt;[[User_talk:Feezo|(send a signal]] | [[Special:Contributions/Feezo|watch the sky]])&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/span&gt; 20:37, 21 May 2011 (UTC)

== removed trivia section ==

The note about the pleiades being Randall's favorite astronomical entity might have been marginally relevant in an article about [[Randall_Munroe]], but it doesn't add anything to this article.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Handling_trivia#Stand-alone_trivia

I also removed it. I'm a fan of xkcd, and who isn't, but listing his preference in star clusters here is akin to going to pages about ice cream and listing his favorite flavor.   &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/199.46.198.231|199.46.198.231]] ([[User talk:199.46.198.231|talk]]) 21:59, 17 April 2014 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Time of visibility ==

I just bumped into this, while reading this article: it states &quot;The Pleiades are a prominent sight in winter in the Northern Hemisphere and in summer in the Southern Hemisphere&quot;. Now, the winter in Northern Hemisphere is at the same time as summer in Southern Hemisphere, so this would mean the star cluster is visible concurrently on both hemispheres. I'm assuming these mean Northern Hemisphere winter and summer, but I don't wish go and write my assumptions in the article.  [unsigned comment:  15:20, 2007 August 9 80.221.4.16]
:The Pleiades are visible in the northern and southern hemispheres on the same dates generally (although not necessarily &quot;concurrently&quot; because of day/night east/west issues).  The Pleiades are closest to the sun in late May, so they are visible nowhere on Earth.  Therefore, in late November they are at the zenith at midnight -- this is optimal visibility because there is less atmosphere.  However, they are probably most prominent in northern mid-latitudes in mid-to-late December, because they are high enough in the early evening (when people are awake and out-and-about) to be bright, but not too high that people might miss them (most people do not walk around looking straight up, and the Pleiades get pretty high up north).  In southern mid-latitudes late December/early January is also a good time because the Pleiades are lower in the sky, and by dark-o-clock (9:30 - 10pm, remember the late sunsets and daylight savings) they are near zenith. In the U.S., I have been enjoying them for the past 2+ months in the pre-dawn sky. &amp;mdash; [[User:Eoghanacht|&lt;font color=&quot;green&quot;&gt;''Eoghanacht''&lt;/font&gt;]] &lt;sup&gt;[[User_talk:Eoghanacht|&lt;font color=&quot;gray&quot;&gt;talk&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;/sup&gt; 15:05, 12 October 2007 (UTC)  ''(Happy Columbus Day!)''


== Image at beginning of the wiki page not from Hubble.== 
Hello ... I'm new to this wikipedia stuff, and haven't figured out how to make corrections, so perhaps someone with more experience could do it? There's a photo at the beginning of the page attributed to the Hubble Space Telescope. Actually, it was taken by the 48&quot; Schmidt at Palomar. It appeared in a Hubble press release for illustrative purposes, the actual science was done with the Fine Guidance Sensors to obtain parallax measurements. The press release section about photo attribution is at http://hubblesite.org/newscenter/archive/releases/2004/20/image/a/ . Complete image description, according to the release: &quot; The color-composite image of the Pleiades star cluster was taken by the Palomar 48-inch Schmidt telescope. The image is from the second Palomar Observatory Sky Survey, and is part of the Digitized Sky Survey. The Pleiades photo was made from three separate images taken in red, green, and blue filters. The separate images were taken between Nov. 5, 1986 and Sept. 11, 1996.&quot; cheers, shireen. Nov 7, 2007

: I've corrected the figure caption -- [[User:Scog|Scog]] ([[User talk:Scog|talk]]) 20:09, 7 December 2007 (UTC)

== Open Cluster vs Asterism ==

In the opening paragraph the Pleiades are referred to as an asterism.  I thought asterisms were apparent groupings of otherwise unrelated stars that are not constellations (i.e. The Big Dipper).  As an open cluster, the stars in the Pleiades are very much related.  Should they be called an asterism?  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/204.61.0.50|204.61.0.50]] ([[User talk:204.61.0.50|talk]]) 14:03, 19 November 2007 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:An asterism is a grouping of stars based on their visual proximity and patterning. This does not exclude a star cluster. [[Special:Contributions/76.66.203.138|76.66.203.138]] ([[User talk:76.66.203.138|talk]]) 11:14, 12 November 2010 (UTC)

== Jehovah's Witness Trivia ==

Citation SOOOO needed here.[[Special:Contributions/71.5.165.250|71.5.165.250]] ([[User talk:71.5.165.250|talk]]) 15:28, 19 March 2008 (UTC)The Discordian

== Use in calendaring ==

In addition to Polynesians using the rising of the Pleiades for the beginning of the new year, are there other cultures that do so? I thought I remembered that Ramadan is calculated the same way. Are there others? [[User:Makana Chai|Makana Chai]] ([[User talk:Makana Chai|talk]]) 07:05, 16 April 2008 (UTC)

== Mass transfer in binary systems not well understood? ==

I find this statement, &quot;...the details of this supposed transfer from a deeper gravity well to a lesser are unexplained&quot;, dubious. Mass transfer from an evolved giant to a compact companion, due to gas overflowing the Roche lobe, seems like a fairly well-understood mechanism for transfer of mass regardless of which star is more massive. Perhaps I have not understood what the editor was trying to say here? [[Special:Contributions/128.165.87.144|128.165.87.144]] ([[User talk:128.165.87.144|talk]]) 22:39, 16 June 2008 (UTC)

== Terminal sigma ==
i think it should be

Δέδυκε μεν ἀ σελάννα&lt;br /&gt;
καὶ Πληΐαδε'''ς''', μέσαι δὲ&lt;br /&gt;
νύκτε'''ς''' πάρα δ᾽ ἔρχετ᾽ ὤρα,&lt;br /&gt;
ἔγω δὲ μόνα κατεύδω.  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/86.83.91.197|86.83.91.197]] ([[User talk:86.83.91.197|talk]]) 12:31, 6 July 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

==GA Sweeps Review: Pass==
As part of the [[WP:WGA|WikiProject Good Articles]], we're doing [[Wikipedia:WikiProject Good articles/Project quality task force/Sweeps|sweeps]] to go over all of the current GAs and see if they still meet the [[WP:WIAGA|GA criteria]]. I'm specifically going over all of the &quot;Planets and Moons&quot; articles. I believe the article currently meets the criteria and should remain listed as a [[WP:GA|Good article]]. I have made several minor corrections throughout the article. I moved the section tagged as dubious since November 2008 here: &quot;Also present in the cluster have several [[white dwarf]]s. Given the young age of the cluster normal stars are not expected to have had time to evolve into white dwarfs, a process which normally takes several billion years. It is believed that, rather than being individual low- to intermediate-mass stars, the progenitors of the white dwarfs must have been high-mass stars in [[binary system (astronomy)|binary system]]s. Transfer of mass from the higher-mass star to its companion during its rapid evolution would result in a much quicker route to the formation of a white dwarf, although the details of this supposed transfer from a deeper gravity well to a lesser are unexplained.&quot; Once a source can be found, it should be readded to the article. Altogether the article is well-written and is still in great shape after its passing in 2006. Continue to improve the article making sure all new information is properly sourced and neutral. I would recommend going through all of the citations and updating the access dates and fixing any dead links. If you have any questions, let me know on my talk page and I'll get back to you as soon as I can. I have updated the article history to reflect this review. Happy editing! --[[User:Nehrams2020|Nehrams2020]] ([[User talk:Nehrams2020|talk]]) 02:08, 3 March 2009 (UTC)

== Names and pronunciation ==

I'd like to find out why the 'Names and pronunciation' section is not a violation of [[WP:NOTDIC]]. Thank you.&amp;mdash;[[User:RJHall|RJH]] ([[User_talk:RJHall|''talk'']]) 18:46, 16 May 2010 (UTC)
: There is a comparable list at the wiktionary [[wikt:Pleiades#Translations|Pleiades]] article.&amp;mdash;[[User:RJHall|RJH]] ([[User_talk:RJHall|''talk'']]) 18:21, 9 June 2010 (UTC)

== &quot;Cultural Significance&quot; ==

Shouldn't this section be struck?
It seems like the most reasonable way to approach this article is to keep this main page a strictly scientific discussion of the actual cluster and the history of its observation, and let everything else &quot;connected&quot; to it be covered under the folklore and literature page. 
Besides, there is only a single thing listed (a corporate brand), and even ''that'' redirects after one sentence. --[[User:Apjohns54|Apjohns54]] ([[User talk:Apjohns54|talk]]) 21:49, 1 June 2010 (UTC)
:The brand information is trivia. The other items added since barely even qualify as that. I will remove the section after the customary waiting period. &lt;span style=&quot;font-family: Palatino Linotype, Book Antiqua, Palatino, serif;&quot; color=&quot;#BBAED0&quot;&gt;[[User:Feezo|Feezo]] &lt;font size=&quot;-2&quot;&gt;[[User_talk:Feezo|(send a signal]] | [[Special:Contributions/Feezo|watch the sky]])&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/span&gt; 06:50, 27 November 2011 (UTC)

== star pattern ==

There needs to be an addition to this article about the asterism. It seems currently missing, but it is a common night sky visual grouping of six stars. [[Special:Contributions/76.66.203.138|76.66.203.138]] ([[User talk:76.66.203.138|talk]]) 11:17, 12 November 2010 (UTC)

== What's the meaning of the &quot;tidal radius&quot; of 43 ly ? ==

The article states: &quot;The cluster core radius is about 8 light years and [[tidal radius]] is about 43 light years&quot; and &quot;[[tidal radius]]&quot; redirects to [[Roche limit]]. That redirect in this context must surely be a mistake, but what then is the tidal radius ? Is it the [[Hill sphere]] radius ? [[User:FvdP|--FvdP]] ([[User talk:FvdP|talk]]) 20:19, 26 August 2011 (UTC)

I agree with this remark. The cluster does not appear to have a core, so what does &quot;core radius&quot; mean? And &quot;tidal radius&quot; still redirects to &quot;Roche Limit&quot;. Elsewhere it says there are 1000 stars in it, which seems like too many to fit in a spherical volume with an 8 l.y. radius. I came here to get an idea of the size of the cluster, e.g. the distance across the region containing the brightest seven stars. This article gives me no clue about it. I'm wondering about the average distance between stars in the cluster...again, nothing here about it. Also, in the intro, the distance is given in &quot;parsecs&quot;, which is rarely used outside of professional astronomy; most lay people use light-years. One more complaint: describing the cluster as being &quot;so close&quot; is misleading, given that it's over 400 l-y away, which is ~100 times as far away as Alpha Centauri. PS: the intro mentions Hipparcus before the section that explains what Hipparcus is (an observational satellite). This is NOT a &quot;good article&quot;; it needs a lot of work. PPS: the 3D pic has no caption (what is it?)[[User:77Mike77|77Mike77]] ([[User talk:77Mike77|talk]]) 18:29, 11 November 2013 (UTC)

== &quot;...Under ideal observing conditions, some hint of nebulosity may be seen around the cluster ...&quot; ==

These sort of statements usually refer to observations with a monocular telescope, the most common kind. Assuming that, then the sentence is completely true, but it is not the full story. With very large binoculars (objective lenses &gt; 100mm) the Merope nebula is easy to see.
[[User:Old wombat|Old_Wombat]] ([[User talk:Old wombat|talk]]) 09:19, 9 January 2012 (UTC)

== [[Alcyone (star)]] ==

&quot;[...] a young cluster, aged at less than 50 million years.&quot;  --[[Special:Contributions/91.10.40.75|91.10.40.75]] ([[User talk:91.10.40.75|talk]]) 21:43, 9 January 2012 (UTC)

== Animated stereo image needs &quot;repair&quot; ==

First, as you see it, the stereo image is static (which means that it is not distracting). However, if you download it conventionally, you get only one or possibly two frames out of a total of roughly 140 or so, and the file size is much too small. However, if you go to the image description and click on the thumbnail, you'll get a normal-sized animated version (it's fascinating!). Unfortunately, I don't know how to move the functional file into the page -- to edit the page, in that respect. I was thinking that some vandal might have disabled animation; hope not.

Regards, Nikevich 18:18, 7 April 2012 (UTC)

If you check out the actual image page, at least ''now'', it says that this is actually a technical limitation for thumbnails of animated gifs. So I've updated your note in the image caption to tell people to go to the actual image to see the animation. 
[[User:Rainspeaker|Rainspeaker]] ([[User talk:Rainspeaker|talk]]) 17:08, 22 March 2013 (UTC)

== cloak &amp; dagger ==

were's the cloak and dagger phrase in the article, why delete it?--[[User:Stefano Vincenzi|Stefano Vincenzi]] ([[User talk:Stefano Vincenzi|talk]]) 07:00, 15 April 2012 (UTC)

== names of Pleiades in antique cultures ==

were's the names of Pleiades in antique cultures?

Reptilian's leader Loki is DEAD; don't mess with PLEiONE.

== Crediting the Greeks? ==
Why are the Greeks being credited as being the oldest tribe possessing knowledge of astronomy and Pleiades instead of the Egypto-Mycenae culture, whose ancient tradition and culture the Dorian Greeks invaded? The Egypto-Mycenae, Ethiopian &amp; Kushite groups were the ones who possessed extensive knowledge of astronomy long before they civilized these warrior Greeks, whom most had absolutely no interest and largely remained ignorant. You also leave out Africa whom were some of the most ancient indigenous culture whose folklore is replete with stories of their ancestor's having originated from the Pleiades. The Dogon, Bambara, Fulbe, Ghanaians, Togolese, Mende and on and on. I mean seriously, with all of the information available today, why does Wiki continue to present these histories from a narrow eurocentric, dis-jointed timeline perspective, when they were the last to know?[[Special:Contributions/74.229.102.208|74.229.102.208]] ([[User talk:74.229.102.208|talk]]) 17:54, 3 May 2012 (UTC)
&lt;!--
--[[Special:Contributions/201.201.1.162|201.201.1.162]] ([[User talk:201.201.1.162|talk]]) 15:48, 19 April 2012 (UTC)
--&gt;--[[User:Elvenmuse|Elvenmuse]] ([[User talk:Elvenmuse|talk]]) 18:09, 19 April 2012 (UTC)

== Removed weird claim ==

Most of this looks like original research of an unimportant coincidence. I removed most of it. -- [[User:Beland|Beland]] ([[User talk:Beland|talk]]) 01:40, 3 June 2012 (UTC)

===Removed text===

The rising of the Pleiades on June 10 is mentioned in the [[Geoponica]], which can be dated to 0:00:00 [[Universal Time]] June 10&lt;sup&gt;[[Gregorian calendar|greg.]]&lt;/sup&gt;, 603 BC, viewed from the [[Kokino|Kokino observatory]], which was 800,000 days (without [[year zero]]) before the oldest biography of [[Nicolaus Copernicus]] was completed on October 7, 1588, by [[Bernardino Baldi]].
* http://www.ancientlibrary.com/geoponica/0028.html
* ''Constantini Cæsaris selectorum præceptionum de agricultura libri viginti, Iano Cornerio medico physico interprete., cap. 1, p. 12, '' Venice '''1538''' ; Basel '''1538''', '''1539''', '''1540''' ; Lyon '''1541'''. {{latin}} 
* [http://www.fourmilab.ch/cgi-bin/Yoursky?lat=42.263546&amp;ns=North&amp;lon=21.953629&amp;ew=East&amp;fov=45&amp;azimuth=0&amp;utc=%2D602%2D06%2D17+0%3A00%3A00&amp;date=2&amp;jd=1501344%2E50000&amp;azideg=0%B0+%28N%29&amp;coords=on&amp;moonp=on&amp;deep=on&amp;deepm=2%2E0&amp;consto=on&amp;constb=on&amp;limag=5%2E0&amp;starn=on&amp;starnm=0%2E0&amp;starb=on&amp;starbm=0%2E0&amp;showmb=%2D1%2E5&amp;showmd=6%2E0&amp;imgsize=800&amp;fontscale=1%2E0&amp;elements= fourmilab.ch Yoursky]
* On the revolutions, Foundations of natural history, Band 1, p. 335, Nicolaus Copernicus: Complete Works, Edward Rosen, Johns Hopkins University Press, 1992.

:&lt;small&gt;[Removed unuseful &quot;ref&quot; tags that confusingly put these links at the end of the talk page. ~ [[User:J. Johnson|J.&amp;nbsp;Johnson (JJ)]] ([[User_talk:J. Johnson#top|talk]]) 21:48, 25 October 2014 (UTC)]&lt;/small&gt;

== In India, Krittika nakshatra ==

I found this statement commented out, presumably because it needs to be verified. Moving it here so it's visible in the meantime. -- [[User:Beland|Beland]] ([[User talk:Beland|talk]]) 01:45, 3 June 2012 (UTC)
:''In India this cluster is called the Krittika nakshatra; believed to be the six wives of the star rishis of the Great Bear.''

== Pleiades conspiracy theories? ==

There is no mention of the Pleiades conspiracy theories (which is what brought me to the page). Not that I mean to lend credence to them, but I think it's an interesting piece of knowledge that should be explored on this page. Numerous other Wikipedia pages reference them (Nordic Aliens, if my memory serves me). The fairly widespread theory (as far as conspiracy theories go) is that humankind owes its origin to beings hailing from somewhere in the pleiades.  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Cuttycuttiercuttiest|Cuttycuttiercuttiest]] ([[User talk:Cuttycuttiercuttiest|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Cuttycuttiercuttiest|contribs]]) 00:37, 9 September 2012 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

Maybe it's because those theories are ridiculous? The cluster is less than 150 million years old. which is not enough time for life to evolve out of inanimate chemicals. (I don't discount the possible really that some UFOs represent alien visitors, but it is impossible that they evolved so far ahead of us in a newborn star system such as the Pleiades.)[[User:77Mike77|77Mike77]] ([[User talk:77Mike77|talk]]) 18:35, 11 November 2013 (UTC)

::There are theories about pleaidians, royal families whom are native to earth that can travel to these stars.  Indian sanskrit also notes of asgard and the nine worlds as globes.  Asgard is a planet of the pleiades whom was under aquarius.  There are rumors that asgard fell and a star within its system became cold.  They say these are sacred stars.  They say the stars have zodiacal bodies and the royal families of earth can infact travel to these oxygenated uninhabited globes.
  &lt;small class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—&amp;nbsp;Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/2601:A:3E01:A560:89B6:E805:3586:F1|2601:A:3E01:A560:89B6:E805:3586:F1]] ([[User talk:2601:A:3E01:A560:89B6:E805:3586:F1|talk]]) 12:54, 11 January 2015 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

:I believe the article should be scientific, not superstitious '''[[User:Tetra quark|Tetra quark]] &lt;sup&gt;([[User talk:Tetra quark|don't be shy]])'''&lt;/sup&gt; 14:49, 11 January 2015 (UTC)

::The standard for inclusion of a thing is not if it is scientific or supestitious, but if it is notable or not.  I have never heard of this theory before, but someone presents reliable sources demonstrating it's notability, I'm open for its inclusion.  Let's not forget that many of the names stars and planets (and the Pleiades) are based on mythology which was anything BUT scientific. [[User:Marteau|Marteau]] ([[User talk:Marteau|talk]]) 18:59, 11 January 2015 (UTC)

== Location Map or Image ==

Nowhere in this article is there a visual representation of the Pleides' location among the other constellations. This would be a valuable addition to the article, and, indeed, should be required for all articles about constellations or celestial objects (at least those visible to the naked eye). [[User:Jmrowland|rowley]] ([[User talk:Jmrowland|talk]]) 15:20, 22 March 2013 (UTC)

== New distance study reference using VLBI should be added in the &quot;Distance&quot; section ==

There have been recent measurements of the distance to the Pleiades cluster that would resolve the controversies generated by the Hipparcos measurements. For more information, read the Science report linked below, and/or the NRAO article linked after that.

Reference link: http://www.sciencemag.org/content/345/6200/1029.abstract

NRAO link: https://public.nrao.edu/news/pressreleases/radio-telescopes-settle-controversy  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/195.212.29.186|195.212.29.186]] ([[User talk:195.212.29.186|talk]]) 13:34, 1 September 2014 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

:{{done}}. ~ [[User:J. Johnson|J.&amp;nbsp;Johnson (JJ)]] ([[User_talk:J. Johnson#top|talk]]) 21:42, 25 October 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>