<article id="22083462" title=Talk:Mexican nobility>
	<talkpage id="22083462" title="Talk:Mexican nobility">
{{WikiProject Mexico|class=C|importance=low}}

==Legal status==
What is conspicuously absent from this article is the historical &amp; current status of &quot;nobility&quot; according to the laws of Mexico. There's no doubt that the [[patrilineality|male line]] descendants of persons [[ennoblement|ennobled]] in Europe were/are, in some sense, noble. But the relevant question remains: are they noble in Mexico? [[User:FactStraight|FactStraight]] ([[User talk:FactStraight|talk]]) 01:26, 22 March 2009 (UTC)
:Yes, they were noble in Mexico. The article even states many families recieved titles from Mexican monarchs (emperors) themselves.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/71.202.207.245|71.202.207.245]] ([[User talk:71.202.207.245|talk]]) 02:03, 7 November 2010 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

Sorry but... since those nobles where made up, mostly for being Spanish descendants, Mexican Nobility is a collection of LIES! Unless you could find the descendants of the original Aztec Emperor, but the &quot;nobles&quot; wouldn't accept that, besides there's no Aztec Nobles anymore since they were killed thanks to the '''Conquistadores'''.

So, the point is, since there is no evidence about &quot;Mexican nobility&quot;, because there isn't, this article must be evaluated for '''fact checking''' and destroyed, erased. annihilated, etc, for being a '''Big Fat Historical Lie''', if the noble is from Spanish blood, then he/she is a Spanish noble, NOT &quot;Mexican noble&quot;; you could find more of this topic by reading the laws of Mexico.--[[Special:Contributions/201.247.28.7|201.247.28.7]] ([[User talk:201.247.28.7|talk]]) 05:56, 17 August 2011 (UTC)

I married a noble German lady -- a princess, no less! Does this make me nobility in Mexico? In Spain? My family comes from both places! Also, this article needs to be in the Spanish Wikipedia, too, if it isn't there already. [[Special:Contributions/64.134.226.123|64.134.226.123]] ([[User talk:64.134.226.123|talk]]) 00:44, 5 October 2011 (UTC)

Response:

:This article refers to Mexicans who are noble, get it? And there is Aztec nobility (which is not the same as Mexican, since not all Mexicans are Aztecs) and conquistadors did not kill all indiginous nobility, it exists until today. 

:The fact that Mexico's Constitution does not legally recognize nobility, doesn't mean that nobility ceases to exist, or that people who were noble by birth cease to be noble beacause the law doesn't expressly recognize it. Nobility is a condition of birth, not of legal right.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/88.10.27.182|88.10.27.182]] ([[User talk:88.10.27.182|talk]]) 09:25, 8 December 2013 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>