<article id="1589376" title=Talk:Emasculation>
	<talkpage id="1589376" title="Talk:Emasculation">
{{WikiProject Gender studies|class=stub|importance= |needs-infobox=yes |needs-photo=yes}}


== warriors/humiliation??? ==

I moved this from the article to here.  There is no context, and no references, nothing.  It is meaningless as it stands.--[[Special:Contributions/24.85.68.231|24.85.68.231]] ([[User talk:24.85.68.231|talk]]) 03:36, 15 February 2008 (UTC)

::Historically, it has been reported that armies emasculated enemy warriors to humiliate them, to seize their power and to make it impossible for them to reproduce. Often [[foreskin]]s, penises, [[scrotum]]s or all were collected to count the dead after battles.

:::The reference is to the First Book of Samuel, where, to earn the hand of his daughter and become next in line for the throne, Saul assigns David the task of bringing him the foreskins of 100 Pharisees.  Saul did not think they would be handed over on request, but he did not foresee that David would avail himself of his own private army to complete the task.  Said foreskins were collected and duly counted out in front of the astonished Saul.  [[User:Dave of Maryland|Dave of Maryland]] ([[User talk:Dave of Maryland|talk]]) 21:26, 11 March 2012 (UTC)
:::: Probably at least as much a way of ensuring that the people you are claiming to have killed are actually dead ... no way anyone's going to let you cut their junk off otherwise (and even if they do, they're not going to be alive much longer). [[Special:Contributions/62.196.17.197|62.196.17.197]] ([[User talk:62.196.17.197|talk]]) 10:27, 2 June 2014 (UTC)

== Merge with Castration? ==

The [[Castration]] article is much better developed.
[[User:Anniepoo|Anniepoo]] ([[User talk:Anniepoo|talk]]) 01:46, 23 October 2010 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>