<article id="44449095" title=User talk:Curty2293>
	<talkpage id="44449095" title="User talk:Curty2293">

==Welcome!==

Hello, Curty2293, and [[Wikipedia:Welcoming committee/Welcome to Wikipedia|welcome]] to Wikipedia! Thank you for [[Special:Contributions/Curty2293|your contributions]]. I hope you like the place and decide to stay. Unfortunately, one or more of your edits to the page [[:Byron, Ontario]] have not conformed to Wikipedia's '''[[Wikipedia:Verifiability|verifiability policy]]''', and may be removed if they have not yet been. Wikipedia articles should refer only to facts and interpretations that have been stated in print or on reputable websites or other forms of media. Always remember to provide a '''[[Wikipedia:Identifying reliable sources|reliable source]]''' for quotations and for any material that is likely to be challenged, or it may be removed. Wikipedia also has a related policy against including [[Wikipedia:No original research|original research]] in articles. Additionally, all new [[Wikipedia:Biographies of living persons|biographies of living people]] must contain at least one reliable source.

If you are stuck and looking for help, please see the '''[[Wikipedia:Citing sources|guide for citing sources]]''' or come to the '''[[Wikipedia:New contributors' help page|new contributors' help page]]''', where experienced Wikipedians can answer any queries you have! Here are a few other good links for newcomers:
* [[Wikipedia:Five pillars|The five pillars of Wikipedia]]
* [[Wikipedia:Contributing to Wikipedia|Contributing to Wikipedia]]
* [[Help:Editing|How to edit a page]]
* [[Help:Contents|Help pages]]
* [[Wikipedia:Tutorial|Tutorial]]
* [[Wikipedia:Article development|How to write a great article]]
* [[Wikipedia:Simplified Manual of Style|Simplified Manual of Style]]

I hope you enjoy editing here and being a [[Wikipedia:Wikipedians|Wikipedian]]! Please [[Wikipedia:Signatures|sign your name]] on talk pages using four tildes (&lt;nowiki&gt;~~~~&lt;/nowiki&gt;); this will automatically produce your name and the date. If you need help, check out [[Wikipedia:Questions]], ask me on [[User talk:Ivanvector{{!}}my talk page]], or ask your question on this page and then place '''&lt;code&gt;{{tl|help me}}&lt;/code&gt;''' before the question. &lt;!-- Template:Welcomeunsourced --&gt; Again, welcome!&amp;nbsp; [[User:Ivanvector|Ivanvector]] ([[User talk:Ivanvector|talk]]) 19:40, 19 November 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>