<article id="5441848" title=Talk:Church of Iceland>
	<talkpage id="5441848" title="Talk:Church of Iceland">
{{talkheader}}
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Lutheranism|class=start|importance=high}}
{{ChristianityWikiProject|importance=Low|class=start}}
{{WikiProject Iceland|class=start|importance=high}}
}}

==Vandalism==
Someone has vandalized this article...  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/71.62.249.129|71.62.249.129]] ([[User talk:71.62.249.129|talk]]) 02:46, 8 December 2009 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

==Proper name==
'''The Church of Iceland''' is a misnaming of &quot;Þjóðkirkjan&quot;.
    &quot;Þjóð&quot; -&gt; meaning '''Nation''',
     and &quot;kirkjan&quot; -&gt; meaning '''the Church''',
would then only be correctly named if it be called  '''The National Church'''. Aither it should be called that, or perhaps better still '''The National Church of Iceland''' to differantiate it from other Lutheren Evangelical churches.

If the Lutheren-Evangelical Church would be called &quot;Kirkja Íslands&quot; then '''The Church of Iceland''' would be a correct translation, but it is not the name of the state sponsored church. It's named &quot;Þjóðkirkjan&quot; not &quot;Kirkja Íslands&quot;.

I suggest it be changed to ''''''The National Church of Iceland''''''

==Lutheran-Evangelical Church fof Iceland==
Also it would be smart if it be written in the search, it being '''The Luteren-Evangelical Church of Iceland''' or '''The Luteren Evangelical Church of Iceland''', that it be redirected to this site/stub.

It seems after a google and wikipedia test, that there is no other church in the world that identifies itself by the name of &quot;Luteran Evangelical Curch&quot; other than the Icelandic state-church. Others aither call themselves &quot;Evangelical Luteran-&quot; or just &quot;Luteran-&quot;. So in essence there is no need to call it &quot;The Luteren-Evangelical Church '''of Iceland'''&quot; but enough to call it '''The Luteren-Evangelical Church'' or ''The Luteren Evangelical Church'.

== Members ==

The member count is too high, it seems to list the entire population of Iceland as members. While it is the state church only about 80% of the population are members so I'm changing the number to the one cited by the statistical bureau of Iceland for 2008.[[User:Ormur|Ormur]] ([[User talk:Ormur|talk]]) 23:09, 13 June 2009 (UTC)

==Dissent from conservatives==
The article should really consider looking into whether there has ever been any doctrinal dissent from conservatives within the Church of Iceland, who might feel alienated about decisions surrounding the [[ordination of women]] or the [[blessing of same-sex unions in Christian churches|blessing of same-sex marriages]]. It is possible to imagine that if this dissent were not healed, many of these conservatives would consider forming their own [[ecclesial community]], which might be tempted to reunite with the Catholic Church, such as recently seen with the [[Traditional Anglican Communion]]. [[User:ADM|ADM]] ([[User talk:ADM|talk]]) 16:00, 11 November 2009 (UTC)

== Sex scandals ==
The CoI has had a number of sex scandals, including a former Bishop Olafur Skuluson (he resigned in 1997 and died in 2008), who among other violations raped a woman (he was never convicted, but it was revealed in a letter from a former organ player) and whose daughter later testified that he abused her throughout her childhood. His succesor tried to persuade 3 women this man had abused to withdraw their accusations. There have been several other stories about sexual abuse - but often the accused has not been convicted. All this has been a major factor in decline of membership from 87.7% in 2001 to 77.6% in 2011 - including some prominent politicians leaving the CoI. Also today only 69% of children are baptisted while it was over 90% in the 90s. Its not hard to source this, but I am not sure how it could be incorporated in the article and how much should be mentioned. But it has had an impact and I think it should be included somehow.--[[User:Orakologen|Orakologen]] ([[User talk:Orakologen|talk]]) 22:10, 17 April 2013 (UTC)
: Yes, you're right. This is valid information and should be included but given the nature of it we must source it. [[User:S.Örvarr.S|Stefán Örvarr Sigmundsson]] ([[User talk:S.Örvarr.S|talk]]) 06:32, 18 April 2013 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>