<article id="23049778" title=User talk:Demcaps>
	<talkpage id="23049778" title="User talk:Demcaps">
==Unblocked==
Hi there.  You have been un-blocked and may resume editing Wikipedia.  I reviewed the block and the recent removal of a comment left in [[WT:NOR]] and determined that the reason for your block (vandalism-only account) was not reasonable, given a lack of history of abuse.  Please leave a message here or on [[User talk:KieferSkunk|my talk page]] if you have any questions.  Thanks. &amp;mdash; '''[[User:KieferSkunk|KieferSkunk]]''' ([[User talk:KieferSkunk|talk]]) &amp;mdash; 22:40, 1 June 2009 (UTC)

==Your contribution to WT:NOR==
Regarding [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia_talk:No_original_research&amp;diff=292779935&amp;oldid=292734987 this edit] in [[WT:NOR]]: [[User:Jerzy]] claimed that you copy/pasted that comment from another location, though I was unable to find a similar comment in the archives.  I've asked him to clarify where the comment came from so I could take a look at it.  In the meantime, though, I thought I'd give you a quick reply in the interest of opening up discussion:

I'm not an expert on the NOR policy, so please take what I have to say with a grain of salt.  But if I read your comment right, you're basically saying that Wikipedia editors could conduct their own interviews with people who are the subjects of WP articles, and use that information in the article with credit to the editor conducting the interview.  If I'm right on this, I think that this would violate the [[WP:SPS|self-published sources]] policy, and also would not qualify as a [[WP:RS|reliable source]].  (Indirectly, it would probably also cause the article to use Wikipedia as a reference, which is also against policy.)  There are a number of reasons why this would probably not work, though again, I would need to defer to the guys who are more familiar with this policy.  That's just my take on it.

Hope this helps.  Thanks. &amp;mdash; '''[[User:KieferSkunk|KieferSkunk]]''' ([[User talk:KieferSkunk|talk]]) &amp;mdash; 22:40, 1 June 2009 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>