<article id="22676932" title=Talk:Surviving U.S. veterans of World War II>
	<talkpage id="22676932" title="Talk:Surviving U.S. veterans of World War II">
{{WPBiography|living=no|class=start|military-work-group=yes|listas=Us World War Ii Veterans}}
{{WPMILHIST|class=start|B1=y|B2=n|B3=y|B4=y|B5=y|US=yes|Biography=yes|WWII=yes}}
==Sources?==

One has to wonder about the source for the World War II veteran numbers. In the United States alone, the November 2008 Department of Veterans Affairs estimate for living WW II vets was 2,306,000. The worldwide number must be several times that.[[User:Frankwomble|Frankwomble]] ([[User talk:Frankwomble|talk]]) 12:21, 4 May 2009 (UTC)

Indeed, there's no way that there are 'only' 2 million veterans left in the entire world.
[[User:Paulus Gun|Paulus Gun]] ([[User talk:Paulus Gun|talk]]) 14:36, 4 May 2009 (UTC)

None of the numbers in this article are backed up by any sort of sources. [[User:Czolgolz|Czolgolz]] ([[User talk:Czolgolz|talk]]) 02:22, 9 May 2009 (UTC)

What is the point of the 'Country Enlistment Ages Analysis' paragraph? If it's supposed to contribute to an estimate of the remaining number of WW II veterans by country, where is that analysis? What about Japan and the other combatant nations? [[User:Frankwomble|Frankwomble]] ([[User talk:Frankwomble|talk]]) 13:38, 13 May 2009 (UTC)

==New citations==

The new citations only show US veterans for 2009. If that's the case, the title of this article needs to be changed. [[User:Czolgolz|Czolgolz]] ([[User talk:Czolgolz|talk]]) 20:22, 13 May 2009 (UTC)
:And in fact the figures are only estimated from May 2001! This article is really a strong candidate for Afd. {{#if:DerbyCountyinNZ|&lt;span style=&quot;background-color:red;color:lime;&quot;&gt;DerbyCountyinNZ&lt;/span&gt;|&lt;span style=&quot;color:lime;&quot;&gt;red&lt;/span&gt;}} 23:21, 13 May 2009 (UTC)

== Suggestion that this article be deleted ==

I propose that this page be nominated for [[WP:Afd|deletion]] on the following grounds.
#The table contains a list of WWI veterans which can be found elsewhere (in fact it is almost certainly copied from the table &quot;Lists of known World War I veterans' deaths by year&quot;.
#The estimates for WWII are in fact only for US forces and are taken from a single projection from May 2001.
#The section on WWI survivors is clearly a copy of the [[List of surviving veterans of World War I]] article.
#The section on WWII survivors is empty.
#The section on Country Enlistment/Current Ages Analysis does not even attempt to provide any relevant information for the article although it implies that it does. It could provide some information but would require work, however in the context of the rest of the article at present it seems to be more padding than actually useful.

Having never nominated an article for Afd would interested users please comment before I attempt this? Cheers, {{#if:DerbyCountyinNZ|&lt;span style=&quot;background-color:red;color:lime;&quot;&gt;DerbyCountyinNZ&lt;/span&gt;|&lt;span style=&quot;color:lime;&quot;&gt;red&lt;/span&gt;}} 23:40, 13 May 2009 (UTC)

:I would support it. Aside from all the above, it also violates [[WP:NOT]] in several ways (I would argue most strongly for &quot;not an indiscriminate collection of information&quot;, particularly statistics) and potentially [[WP:OR]]. Furthermore, it seems overall to be an unencyclopedic topic: we wouldn't have a topic on &quot;estimated number of Christians in each denomination&quot;, we would just incorporate the relevant information into [[Christianity]] or some other article. Cheers, [[User:Canadian Paul|CP]] 16:13, 14 May 2009 (UTC)
:I'd support it as well. 1. The 'citations' don't even seem to match up with the source 2. The source doesn't seem reliable (may even be fake) 3. It was last updated in 2001. 4. Can we really take a source seriously that says they expect to have 71 remaining veterans later this year?! [[User:SiameseTurtle|SiameseTurtle]] ([[User talk:SiameseTurtle|talk]]) 08:51, 15 May 2009 (UTC)

Just as a casual onlooker ... I agree this article isn't too good, but I would suggest leaving it in place for a short period and see if people upgrade it. It's interesting subject matter ... however I think it should be confined to WW2 only, all the info on the WW1 vets is already in place elsewhere.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/211.116.88.112|211.116.88.112]] ([[User talk:211.116.88.112|talk]]) 05:03, 16 May 2009 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

As this article no longer contains references to WWI, and is undergoing almost daily changes of name, there seems no point in nominating it for Afd. There is a slim possibility it will eventually become a worthwhile article. If not someone else can Afd it. Cheers, {{#if:DerbyCountyinNZ|&lt;span style=&quot;background-color:red;color:lime;&quot;&gt;DerbyCountyinNZ&lt;/span&gt;|&lt;span style=&quot;color:lime;&quot;&gt;red&lt;/span&gt;}} 00:15, 19 May 2009 (UTC)

its not really a list, its statistics, therefore, we should probably delete it, its not very encyclopedic, though it does have proper sources, there should be an afd to decide what to do with this article. [[Special:Contributions/65.0.53.247|65.0.53.247]] ([[User talk:65.0.53.247|talk]]) 21:33, 22 December 2009 (UTC)

==All facts unsourced==

The only citation for these figures was a website that was last updated in 2001. These were projected estimates for the (then) future. The same website also estimates that there are 71 US WWI veterans still alive, in reality there is only one. I recommend we either get some actual statistics or delete this article. [[User:Czolgolz|Czolgolz]] ([[User talk:Czolgolz|talk]]) 23:35, 30 May 2009 (UTC)

Okay, I've deleted the table and replaced the figure with the only one I could find, from 2006. Anyone who can come up with a more recent figure, please update. [[User:Czolgolz|Czolgolz]] ([[User talk:Czolgolz|talk]]) 23:45, 30 May 2009 (UTC)

I added November 2008 data from the Department of Veterans Affairs website, their fact sheet titled &quot;America's Wars.&quot; [[User:Frankwomble|Frankwomble]] ([[User talk:Frankwomble|talk]]) 14:06, 1 June 2009 (UTC)

==Retitle this article (again)==

This article should be titled List of surviving American veterans of World War II, as America is the only country this article deals with (there were one or two other countries involved in that war, if memory serves). [[User:Czolgolz|Czolgolz]] ([[User talk:Czolgolz|talk]]) 23:45, 30 May 2009 (UTC)

Done. [[User:Frankwomble|Frankwomble]] ([[User talk:Frankwomble|talk]]) 17:24, 4 June 2009 (UTC)

== Extraordinary categories == 
Why under Military equipment of the United States etc - should be under Military personnel!! [[User:Hugo999|Hugo999]] ([[User talk:Hugo999|talk]]) 11:14, 16 June 2009 (UTC)

== Projected mortality ==

Does anyone find this in bad taste? It's pure conjecture and is merrily predicting deaths. I say the table should be removed. [[User:Czolgolz|Czolgolz]] ([[User talk:Czolgolz|talk]]) 14:58, 30 September 2009 (UTC)

Since no one has objected, I've removed the table that predicts when our veterans will be dead. Discuss here if you object. [[User:Czolgolz|Czolgolz]] ([[User talk:Czolgolz|talk]]) 20:42, 23 October 2009 (UTC)

== Survivors Associations ==
I added a brief section regarding survivors associations. The list is obviously not all-inclusive. Please add/edit as appropriate.[[User:Frankwomble|Frankwomble]] ([[User talk:Frankwomble|talk]]) 18:16, 25 May 2010 (UTC)

== Total veterans figure ==

The latest [http://www.va.gov/opa/publications/factsheets/fs_americas_wars.pdf Fact sheet] from the DVA has an estimate of 1,711,000 veterans. I think this is a misprint for 1,171,000. Not only is it higher than the previous estimate but the estimates for the next few years are:

* 1,002,000
* 843,000 (- 159,000)
* 727,000 (- 116,000)
* 614,000 (- 113,000)

Given this doubt I'm reluctant to update the article with the latest figure, but it might mean leaving it for longer than is ideal. &lt;span style=&quot;background-color:orange;color:blue;&quot;&gt;DerbyCountyinNZ&lt;/span&gt; &lt;sup&gt; ([[User talk:DerbyCountyinNZ|Talk]] [[Special:Contributions/DerbyCountyinNZ|Contribs]])&lt;/sup&gt; 06:45, 7 June 2013 (UTC)
:You're probably right. Let's hope the DVA fixes it! --[[User:Abidjan227|Abidjan227]] ([[User talk:Abidjan227|talk]]) 18:09, 7 June 2013 (UTC)

:I submitted a query to the VA regarding this statistic; will post any response or update. [[User:Frankwomble|Frankwomble]] ([[User talk:Frankwomble|talk]]) 15:48, 5 August 2013 (UTC)
:No response from the VA to date. Will have to wait and see what the November 2013 update of the Fact Sheet says.[[User:Frankwomble|Frankwomble]] ([[User talk:Frankwomble|talk]]) 18:51, 4 September 2013 (UTC)

::In May 2012, the VA's Fact Sheet (dated Nov 2011) showed an estimate of 1,711,000:
::https://web.archive.org/web/20120526094552/http://www1.va.gov/opa/publications/factsheets/fs_americas_wars.pdf

::In December 2012, their Fact Sheet (dated Nov 2012) showed the reduced estimate of 1,462,809:
::https://web.archive.org/web/20121230201341/http://www.va.gov/opa/publications/docs/Americas_Wars_Fact_Sheet.doc

::By April 2013, their Fact Sheet again showed that previous estimate of 1,711,000:
::https://web.archive.org/web/20130408212844/http://www.va.gov/opa/publications/factsheets/fs_americas_wars.pdf

::In each case, they included a footnote explaining that the estimates were based on a &quot;new population projection methodology&quot;, but the term &quot;new&quot; is out of context, and I cannot find any source that supports any of these projections.

:: I think the idea that their report contains a typo is rather speculative. They keep issuing estimates that exceed 1.7 million veterans, and it appears to me that they really mean for this to be the current number they wish to convey. [[User:NameIsRon|NameIsRon]] ([[User talk:NameIsRon|talk]]) 14:43, 25 May 2014 (UTC)

:::In which case their prediction that the total in 4 months time will plummet to 1,002,000 makes no sense! &lt;span style=&quot;background-color:orange;color:blue;&quot;&gt;DerbyCountyinNZ&lt;/span&gt; &lt;sup&gt; ([[User talk:DerbyCountyinNZ|Talk]] [[Special:Contributions/DerbyCountyinNZ|Contribs]])&lt;/sup&gt; 18:18, 25 May 2014 (UTC)

::::Note that in Nov 2011, their projections were:
::::''VA estimates the number of living World War II U.S. veterans will be:''
::::''9/30/11……….1,711,000 &amp;nbsp; &amp;nbsp; 9/30/12……. 1,463,000 &amp;nbsp; &amp;nbsp; 9/30/13……..1,237,000 &amp;nbsp; &amp;nbsp; 9/30/14….… 1,035,000''
::::And now they have reduced the 9/30/14 figure to 1,002,000.
::::It does look like 1,463,000 is what they should have given in Nov 2012 as their &quot;current&quot; estimate (rather than the overly precise figure we show in the article), and they may have suffered from an editing mishap that caused the 2011 figure to make a return appearance as what appears to be the &quot;current&quot; figure. It would be great if we could find a good secondary source. [[User:NameIsRon|NameIsRon]] ([[User talk:NameIsRon|talk]]) 18:47, 25 May 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>