<article id="17360552" title=Talk:List of minor characters in Peanuts>
	<talkpage id="17360552" title="Talk:List of minor characters in Peanuts">
{{Comicsproj|Strips-work-group=yes|class=list|importance=mid}}
{{WikiProject Fictional characters|class=List}}

===Minor edit===
Sebastpol was not Schulz' home town. [[User:Devtrash|Devtrash]] ([[User talk:Devtrash|talk]]) 23:45, 19 May 2008 (UTC)

== Very Minor Characters ==

Harold Angel:  Sally was in a Christmas show, and kept insisting that Harold Angel was going to sing.  People kept telling her she misunderstood or misheard ... Until a new kid showed up, and when asking for directions, said &quot;I'm Harold Angel.  I'm supposed to sing.&quot; [[User:SlowJog|SlowJog]] ([[User talk:SlowJog|talk]]) 00:26, 12 July 2008 (UTC)

There was a 1985 strip where Sally is going to see a Mall Santa, and tell the kid in front of her to check Santa's Ear Lobes.--[[User:RPGMarker35|RPGMarker35]] ([[User talk:RPGMarker35|talk]]) 02:08, 23 July 2009 (UTC)

== Merge ==

I oppose the merge. This subarticle is ''way'' too long to merge back into the Peanuts article. [[User:TenPoundHammer|&lt;span style=&quot;color:green&quot;&gt;Ten Pound Hammer&lt;/span&gt;]] and his otters • &lt;sup&gt;([[Special:Contributions/TenPoundHammer|Broken clamshells]] • [[:User talk:TenPoundHammer|Otter chirps]] • [[:User:TenPoundHammer/Country|HELP]])&lt;/sup&gt; 19:47, 26 January 2009 (UTC)
*You oppose merging a list lacking third-party sources? I'm a big ''Peanuts'' fan, but seriously, how is this anything but [[WP:LISTCRUFT|cruft]]? People have had weeks to add things (months, if you count my ''first'' nomination), and the only new info added has been more unsourced trivia. '''[[User:COMPFUNK2|THE AMERICAN METROSEXUAL]]''' 01:19, 2 February 2009 (UTC)
*I also '''Oppose'''. I think it should be merged to [[List of Peanuts characters]] instead of [[Peanuts]]. [[User:Rowdy the Ant|Rowdy the Ant]] ([[User talk:Rowdy the Ant|talk]]) 16:57, 14 February 2009 (UTC)
:*Re Compfunk: Many of these characters can indeed be sourced — also, it's only a fork, so I think the rules are a little more lenient. If even just a few were merged, the [[List of Peanuts characters]] would be very, very long. [[User:TenPoundHammer|&lt;span style=&quot;color:green&quot;&gt;Ten Pound Hammer&lt;/span&gt;]] and his otters • &lt;sup&gt;([[Special:Contributions/TenPoundHammer|Broken clamshells]] • [[:User talk:TenPoundHammer|Otter chirps]] • [[:User:TenPoundHammer/Country|HELP]])&lt;/sup&gt; 04:29, 17 February 2009 (UTC)
:There's no room to merge it back to Peanuts.  It's that simple.  Sometimes you just have to [[WP:IAR]]. That said, Peanuts is in our maintenance queue at [[WP:COMICS]] and we're hoping to get it to GA status, and looking at what there is to summarise and how the article will turn out, there isn't the room for the list to be merged in.  There's quite a few Comics Journal articles to use as sources for this particular article, but it is a question of time at the moment.  We're currently working on [[Fantastic Four]], [[Jack Kirby]], [[Alex Raymond]], [[Spider-Man]], which just passed GA, and [[Silver Age of Comic Books]], which is under review. I think after that we have [[Spider-Man: One More Day]], and then you can see the list of what next at [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia_talk:WikiProject_Comics#What_next.3F]. So if you're prepared to allow a little time, we're hoping to have this at GA in a couple of months at the outside. We'll have a look at how best to present the ancillary information then. Cheers, [[User:Hiding|Hiding]] &lt;small&gt;[[User talk:Hiding|T]] &lt;/small&gt; 09:41, 18 February 2009 (UTC)
::Rowdy closed this discussion but I undid it. There is no one agreeing that a merge is in order, so he shouldn't have merged. [[User:TenPoundHammer|&lt;span style=&quot;color:green&quot;&gt;Ten Pound Hammer&lt;/span&gt;]] and his otters • &lt;sup&gt;([[Special:Contributions/TenPoundHammer|Broken clamshells]] • [[:User talk:TenPoundHammer|Otter chirps]] • [[:User:TenPoundHammer/Country|HELP]])&lt;/sup&gt; 04:48, 22 February 2009 (UTC)
:::I think everyone is missing my point. First, when you merge a smaller article to a bigger article, does that mean you have to include every single piece of information from the smaller article? No. Second, if the characters can be easily sourced, then why hasn't anyone sourced them yet? You've had weeks! And using [[WP:IAR]] seems a little unfair because it seems like you all are ignoring the rules simply because [[WP:ILIKEIT|it's about a subject you like]] (and don't get me wrong; I love ''Peanuts'' too). '''[[User:COMPFUNK2|THE AMERICAN METROSEXUAL]]''' 16:28, 25 February 2009 (UTC)
::::Interesting; no one has had anything else to say after I made that point. In all fairness, if some reliable, third-party sources aren't added within the next few days, I'm going to redirect this to the main ''Peanuts'' article. '''[[User:COMPFUNK2|THE AMERICAN METROSEXUAL]]''' 16:50, 7 March 2009 (UTC)
:::::I was under the impression that we held a different standard for lists. [[User:TenPoundHammer|&lt;span style=&quot;color:green&quot;&gt;Ten Pound Hammer&lt;/span&gt;]] and his otters • &lt;sup&gt;([[Special:Contributions/TenPoundHammer|Broken clamshells]] • [[:User talk:TenPoundHammer|Otter chirps]] • [[:User:TenPoundHammer/Country|HELP]])&lt;/sup&gt; 17:20, 7 March 2009 (UTC)
::::::You might want to read [[WP:SAL]], particularly '''[[WP:SAL#Lead and selection criteria|this]]''' section. '''[[User:COMPFUNK2|THE AMERICAN METROSEXUAL]]''' 19:55, 7 March 2009 (UTC)
::::::: And ''you'' may want to read several years worth of discussions, including some semi-recent polls, concerning fiction, lists, merging, and the like.
:::::::That aside, I think the proper response to your claims/concerns (missing lead, references/etc.) is: {{tl|sofixit}}...
:::::::Redirecting merely because [[WP:IDONTLIKEIT]] seems less than acceptable. - [[User:Jc37|jc37]] 22:16, 7 March 2009 (UTC)
My problem is I don't know where to find any sources. I'm thinking of taking this to the comics wikiproject for help. [[User:TenPoundHammer|&lt;span style=&quot;color:green&quot;&gt;Ten Pound Hammer&lt;/span&gt;]] and his otters • &lt;sup&gt;([[Special:Contributions/TenPoundHammer|Broken clamshells]] • [[:User talk:TenPoundHammer|Otter chirps]] • [[:User:TenPoundHammer/Country|HELP]])&lt;/sup&gt; 15:33, 8 March 2009 (UTC)
:Sounds like a plan. (By the way, jc37, [[WP:COOL|why are you so upset]]?) '''[[User:COMPFUNK2|THE AMERICAN METROSEXUAL]]''' 22:00, 8 March 2009 (UTC)
::Not upset at all. Your comment appeared to be in a certain &quot;tone&quot;, and I was responding in like &quot;tone&quot;. However, if I misinterpreted the tone of your comments, I freely apologise.
::Anyway, that aside, the project has a [[WP:WikiProject Comics/References|references page]].
::And off the top of my head, besides the strips themselves (and books reprinting the strips), ''Peanuts Jubillee'' has some info, ''The Gospel according to Peanuts'' has some (though it's more commentary about the strips put into the light of the books' author), ''50 Years of Happiness: A Tribute to Charles M. Schulz.'' (Derrick Bang with Victor Lee.), and there's always [Snoopy.com].
::Hope this helps. - [[User:Jc37|jc37]] 23:00, 8 March 2009 (UTC)
:::Guess it's time to hit the library, eh? I know my church has ''The Gospel According to Peanuts''. [[User:TenPoundHammer|&lt;span style=&quot;color:green&quot;&gt;Ten Pound Hammer&lt;/span&gt;]] and his otters • &lt;sup&gt;([[Special:Contributions/TenPoundHammer|Broken clamshells]] • [[:User talk:TenPoundHammer|Otter chirps]] • [[:User:TenPoundHammer/Country|HELP]])&lt;/sup&gt; 18:52, 9 March 2009 (UTC)
:::*Like I said above, and which everyone seemed to have ignored, Sometimes you just have to [[WP:IAR]]. That said, Peanuts is in our maintenance queue at [[WP:COMICS]] and we're hoping to get it to GA status, and looking at what there is to summarise and how the article will turn out, there isn't the room for the list to be merged in.  There's quite a few Comics Journal articles to use as sources for this particular article, but it is a question of time at the moment.  We're currently working on [[Fantastic Four]], [[Jack Kirby]], [[Alex Raymond]], [[Spider-Man]], which just passed GA, and [[Silver Age of Comic Books]], which is under review. I think after that we have [[Spider-Man: One More Day]], and then you can see the list of what next at [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia_talk:WikiProject_Comics#What_next.3F]. So if you're prepared to allow a little time, we're hoping to have this at GA in a couple of months at the outside. We'll have a look at how best to present the ancillary information then. Appreciate it if everyone can hold fire for a little while, seeing as there is no deadline and all, best wishes, [[User:Hiding|Hiding]] &lt;small&gt;[[User talk:Hiding|T]] &lt;/small&gt; 02:11, 10 March 2009 (UTC)

== Charlie Brown's Pen(cil) Pal ==
Should Charlie Brown's Pen(cil) Pal be included in this list? --[[User:QQQ|QQQ]] (25 Apr. 2009)  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|undated]] comment added 20:25, 25 April 2009 (UTC).&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!--Template:Undated--&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:My first thought was no, but then I remembered that we've actually seen responses from his pencil pal. So probably? - [[User:Jc37|jc37]] 01:09, 26 April 2009 (UTC)
::Yeah, it probably should.--[[User:RPGMarker35|RPGMarker35]] ([[User talk:RPGMarker35|talk]]) 02:08, 23 July 2009 (UTC)

You forgot the neighbour's cat.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/79.6.1.155|79.6.1.155]] ([[User talk:79.6.1.155|talk]]) 05:39, 7 April 2010 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:No, the cat hasn't been forgotten; its section was just recently [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=List_of_minor_characters_in_Peanuts&amp;diff=343998754&amp;oldid=341005634 changed] to &quot;World War II&quot;, because according to an unsourced claim, that was once given as the cat's name.  However, as the cat was more frequently referred to and is more widely recognized simply as &quot;the cat next door,&quot; I have reverted that change.  When looking for a section on the cat, I don't think most people are going to know to look for it under &quot;World War II&quot;. [[User:AtticusX|AtticusX]] ([[User talk:AtticusX|talk]]) 09:56, 7 April 2010 (UTC)

==Rewrite?==
*I am a huge ''Peanuts'' fan, but most (if not ''all'') of the information in this article is unsourced. Moreover, the supposed real names of some of these characters appeared to have been invented on the spot, not to mention even some of the characters sometimes. Also, using &quot;various Peanuts books&quot; as a reference is pretty vague. '''&lt;span style=&quot;color:orange;&quot;&gt;Erpert&lt;/span&gt;''' &lt;small&gt;&lt;sup&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;color:green;&quot;&gt;[[User:Erpert|Who ''is'' this guy?]]&lt;/span&gt; | &lt;span style=&quot;color:yellow;&quot;&gt;[[User talk:Erpert|Wanna talk about it?]]&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;/small&gt; 07:01, 10 August 2011 (UTC)

== Peanuts Wiki ==
*There's another website, called the Peanuts Wiki. It says that Eudora was the last major character (or words to that effect) to appear in the strip. However, she's listed on here as one of the minor characters. I've put a contradictory tag on it now, and we'll see if we should create a new article for her. [[Special:Contributions/109.153.10.80|109.153.10.80]] ([[User talk:109.153.10.80|talk]]) 19:49, 26 October 2011 (UTC)
**That tag is for contradictions between Wikipedia articles, not a Wikipedia article and an article found on another wiki. That said, I removed the tag. '''&lt;span style=&quot;color:orange;&quot;&gt;Erpert&lt;/span&gt;''' &lt;small&gt;&lt;sup&gt;&lt;span style=&quot;color:green;&quot;&gt;[[User:Erpert|Who ''is'' this guy?]]&lt;/span&gt; | &lt;span style=&quot;color:yellow;&quot;&gt;[[User talk:Erpert|Wanna talk about it?]]&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;/small&gt; 07:59, 16 November 2011 (UTC)

== Merger proposal ==

I propose [[Eudora (Peanuts; main article)]] be merged here because there is already a section on Eudora here. It has enough explaining here. [[User:Citrusbowler|&lt;font color=&quot;Orange&quot;&gt;Citrusbowler&lt;/font&gt;]] &lt;small&gt;([[User talk:Citrusbowler|talk]]) ([[Special:Contributions/Citrusbowler|contribs]]) ([[Special:EmailUser/Citrusbowler|email me]]) &lt;/small&gt;  22:17, 30 June 2013 (UTC)
* '''I agree.''' [[User:Frietjes|Frietjes]] ([[User talk:Frietjes|talk]]) 18:40, 2 July 2013 (UTC)
*'''Oppose''' For two reasons. The first is that [[Eudora (Peanuts)]] is at the start phase of a full article and should and can be filled out further. The second is that Eudora is ''the last major Peanuts character to be introduced into the Peanuts world.'' Therefore she is not a minor character. --[[User:Bob247|Bob247]] ([[User talk:Bob247|talk]]) 19:47, 23 September 2013 (UTC)
*'''Agree''' Eudora's page is obviously full of the same fancruft and OR that plagues this page and thus should clearly be folded in. Also to say that the merge shouldn't happen simply because she is the last Peanuts character (which is unsubstantiated on the page BTW) and consequently this somehow that makes her more important than - say - &quot;The Little Red Haired Girl&quot; or other clearly more important minor characters is - with all due respect - pretty questionable logic to say the least... Also just because a page is in its infancy isn't a reason to blindly keep it. [[User:Ckruschke|Ckruschke]] ([[User talk:Ckruschke|talk]]) 18:13, 24 September 2013 (UTC)Ckruschke
*'''Agree''' - Put them all together. I don't think the sole oppose makes a convincing point. [[User:Jusdafax|&lt;font color=&quot;green&quot;&gt;Jus&lt;/font&gt;]][[User talk:Jusdafax|&lt;font color=&quot;C1118C&quot;&gt;da&lt;/font&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/Jusdafax|&lt;font color=&quot;#0000FF&quot;&gt;fax&lt;/font&gt;]]  07:54, 6 December 2013 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>