<article id="4157547" title=Talk:Dixie (Utah)>
	<talkpage id="4157547" title="Talk:Dixie (Utah)">
{{talk header}}
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
 {{WikiProject United States|class=start|importance=Mid|UT=yes|UT-importance=Mid}}
 {{LDSproject|class=start|importance=low}}
}}

==Untitled==
This article could use a map....  [[User:JonMoore|Jon]]&lt;b&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;red&quot;&gt;[[User_talk:JonMoore|Moore]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/b&gt; 04:37, 22 February 2006 (UTC)

It's pretty much synonymous with Washington County away down south in Utah. I'm not sure if that doesn't indicate that the Washington County reference in the article doesn't maybe suffice. [[User:Superdoghead|Superdoghead]] 22:13, 21 April 2007 (UTC)

== Use of Correct Historical Information ==

The article previously cited a Maffly article in the Salt Lake Tribune that was an editorial and not a historical source. Please use reliable sources for encyclopedia articles.

One claim made in the prior version of this article was that Robert Covington was leader of the Cotton Mission. He was not. He was the leader of a small group of families who founded Washington City in 1857. He was bishop of Washington City for about ten years and may have been influential in that small town, but was largely unknown to most of the settlers of Dixie.

The Hicks account of A.W. Collins' crimes is not encyclopedic and does not belong in an article of this type.  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:KHearts|KHearts]] ([[User talk:KHearts|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/KHearts|contribs]]) 23:39, 1 February 2013 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
	</talkpage>
</article>