<article id="5425524" title=Talk:IsoHunt>
	<talkpage id="5425524" title="Talk:IsoHunt">
{{Talk header}}
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Computing|class=Start|importance=Low|websites=yes|websites-importance=mid}}
{{WikiProject Internet|class=Start|importance=Mid}}
{{WikiProject Law|class=Start|importance=Low}}
{{WikiProject International relations|class=Start|importance=Low}}
{{WikiProject Internet culture|class=start|importance=mid}}
}}


== Cleanup request ==
Though the introduction of this article isn't bad, the rest of the article needs a serious rewrite. It looks more like a lot of information was randomly added and quickly categorized afterwards. I propose merging history with legal (or vice versa), removing miscellaneous and technical details. --[[User:Nillusius|Nillusius]] 17:14, 2 August 2007 (UTC)

==Un-warranted neutrality dispute?==

I noticed that the legal section of this topic had it's neutrality disputed, I went over it, and there doesn't seem to be any bias at all. Most of that section simply details the goings-on in regards to their legal battle with the MPAA/RIAA. --[[User:Smackdat|Smackdat]] 03:36, 20 January 2007 (UTC)

----

If it is taken into account that isoHunt offers similar, albeit perhaps more comprehensive, metadata on BitTorrent resources that can be found on other popular sites such as [http://bittorrent.com BitTorrent.com] and [[Google]] (by attaching &quot;ext:torrent&quot; or &quot;filetype:torrent&quot; to query), the validity of [[MPAA]]'s case is questionable under United States copyright law, specifically the [[DMCA]] Safe Harbor provisions.

Changed &quot;questionable&quot; to &quot;arguable&quot;, arguable is a more unbiased term --[[User:Smackdat|Smackdat]] 03:48, 20 January 2007 (UTC)

----


[[User:Ross613|ross613]] 03:21, 20 January 2007 (UTC)isn't isohunt one of the biggest/most popular trackers? I don't know where i can find such data to prove my point, but i'm sure it exists. 

This is taken from their front page, not bad i'll say:

*Sites: 212  
*Trackers: 14392
*Online Torrents: 324832
*Files: 5.64 mil
*Size: 199.95 TB
*Peers: 7.53 mil  

I think if public trackers like [[TorrentSpy]] can warrant a wikipedia entry, isoHunt should be atleast somewhat noteworthy. -- [[User:Abid Ahmed|Abid Ahmed]] 22:55, 4 June 2006 (UTC)
:isoHunt may set new and important precedents vis-a-vis Canadian vs. MPAA-driven American litigation (isoHunt.com being based in Richmond, Canada). This is an important article that needs to be expanded.[[User:NeoThe1|NeoThe1]] 07:37, 7 June 2006 (UTC)

Please do not remove this article yet, I am currently attempting to get in contact with the creator of IsoHunt for more information to help with this article. 
-[[user:zakhebeone|zakhebeone]]

I've cleaned up some of the NPOV stuff and added some more factual information. I'm not [[Gary Fung]] but I'm in close enough contact with him to have up-to-date factual info ;-). If you guys are interested in having this article stick around, please keep the NPOV to a minimum, I removed: &quot;It spans 212 sites giving it superior power in the [[BitTorrent]] realm.&quot; Oh, and you might know me as &quot;jthm&quot;. Abid Ahmed: isoHunt is not a tracker, it is a search engine. [[user:IsoHunt|IsoHunt]] 02:25, 7 June 2006 (UTC)


I would really like to thank everyone this is great! This was a small abandondend article and it was so helpless I had to do something. I'm not very good with wiki but I recieved alot of help and I'm very greatful. 
-[[user:zakhebeone|zakhebeone]]

Many aspects of this article violate Wikipedia's NPOV policy, specifically in the Legal section. Other instances of violated NPOV standards may exist elsewhere in the article but I have not completely reviewed them as I lack the time. --[[User:Sidar|Sidar]] 14:29, 20 July 2006 (UTC)

sidar, if you'd like to change the page, please do, but don't flag unless you're willing to put in the work to fix what you believe is wrong. [[User:IsoHunt|IsoHunt]] 05:17, 3 September 2006 (UTC)

: Agreed!  After reviewing the NPOV myself in detail, I can't find anything particularly unusual about the presentation of this article versus numerous others on Wikipedia - and certainly nothing that exhibits outright bias. Indeed, if there is bias of any kind reflected, it's by those who toss up a flag citing bias because the text doesn't jibe with their own point of view, or express the truth as they see it.  Surely, that's not what the flag is for, is it?  It should be incumbent on flagging the article as non-neutral &lt;i&gt;what elements exactly&lt;/i&gt; ellecit the citation. [[User:Ross613|ross613]] 03:21, 20 January 2007 (UTC)

With regards to [[User:Jkelly|Jkelly]]'s comment about copyright verfiability of isohunt's logo, posting our logo on wikipedia is considered fair use.

== down ==

the site was taken down tonight. :/ --[[User:Discharger12|Discharger12]] 04:38, 17 January 2007 (UTC)
:yep as of 4:56 UTC website says:
 Update, Jan. 16, 2007
 Lawyers from our primary ISP decided to pull our plug without any advance notice, as of 14:45 PST. No doubt related to our  
 lawsuit brought by the MPAA, but we don't have more information at this time until people responsible comes to work tomorrow.   
 We will be back in operation once we sort out this mess with our ISP, or we get new hardware ready from our new ISP.
 Sit back and enjoy the rest of the internet in the mean time. While it last.
 
 - The isoHunt crew

the fact that it's currently down, shouldn't go under history, but rather a &quot;current status&quot; section created below in the main article... [[User:Obrez|Obrez]] 05:07, 17 January 2007 (UTC)
: i agree, this article needs restyling [[User:Asymmetric|Asymmetric]] 15:27, 17 January 2007 (UTC)

: Not sure if there's some kind of &quot;standard&quot; observed for discussion of P2P sites yet.  Were someone to undertake the task, perhaps some specific examples or an outline of the presentation would be helpful.  To me &quot;history&quot; refers to anything in the past - including the recent past - if, for no other reason than any other course begs the question &quot;when does the past become 'history'?&quot;  For now, will make edits to the history section which include elements in the recent past, unless the same information is already presented in another section. [[User:Ross613|ross613]] 03:10, 20 January 2007 (UTC)

Site seems to be down [[User:Olmer|Olmer]] 12:12, 27 January 2007 (UTC)
: Yep, site is down, as if it doesn't exist. Cross your fingers that it's just hardware issues. [[User:63.135.203.225|63.135.203.225]] 20:49, 28 January 2007 (UTC)

== Cleanup ==

I added a couple of clean up notices to this article, as I feel much of it could be re-written in a more encyclopedic tone. I'm prepared to have a go at this, soon; perhaps when the 'current event' status no longer applies and it is not so likely to be edited. - [[User:Penagate|&lt;span style=&quot;color:rgb(255,115,0);font-weight:bold&quot;&gt;penagate&lt;/span&gt;]] &lt;sub&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;[&lt;/nowiki&gt;[[User_talk:Penagate|&lt;span style=&quot;color:grey&quot;&gt;talk&lt;/span&gt;]]|[[Special:Contributions/Penagate|&lt;span style=&quot;color:grey&quot;&gt;contribs&lt;/span&gt;]]]&lt;/sub&gt; 13:48, 19 January 2007 (UTC)
: I've had a bash just now. I condensed all the &quot;online again, offline again&quot; stuff; ironically, the site seems to have gone down just now, so I couldn't add in as many references as I'd like. I did move the MPAA letter to a reference though. - [[User:Penagate|&lt;span style=&quot;color:rgb(255,115,0);font-weight:bold&quot;&gt;penagate&lt;/span&gt;]] &lt;sub&gt;&lt;nowiki&gt;[&lt;/nowiki&gt;[[User_talk:Penagate|&lt;span style=&quot;color:grey&quot;&gt;talk&lt;/span&gt;]]|[[Special:Contributions/Penagate|&lt;span style=&quot;color:grey&quot;&gt;contribs&lt;/span&gt;]]]&lt;/sub&gt; 10:59, 4 February 2007 (UTC)

== Down 2008/02/17 ==

Site front page is up, but when you do a search, it shows a downtime message.
(As of SUn 2008/02/17)
[[User:Co1dfus1on789|Co1dfus1on789]] ([[User talk:Co1dfus1on789|talk]]) 21:54, 17 February 2008 (UTC)


== Dubai Censorship 12/03/2008 ==
An expat's view point....

I have been in Dubai since mid November and Isohunt.com (and the bulk of torrent related sites) along with many other sites including Skype, Flickr, Proxy sites and soon Facebook are blocked &quot;Due to its content being inconsistent with the religious, cultural, political and moral values of the United Arab Emirates&quot; (http://mashable.com/2007/10/01/facebook-uae/). 

Etisalat the country's only Phone / Internet provider (Monopoly) has its proxy based in California (I believe) and it is through their that they block sites, its a list the grows daily. I have just checked verified-p2p-links.com and it does work for the moment, good to know, but I don't think that will last long. I would like to add that its not word filtering as you are allowed to search through google for torrents etc but you will be very lucky to get onto the site it links too. It would probably help tho if the domain names had no relation to p2p, torrents etc :) 

I can confirm that JAP works here as long as you set it to connect too the mixes through a peer, as the mix ip ranges are blocked. Im lucky that I set-up a proxy server on a vpn before I came here in my home country. This means that I can download torrents as long as I have Utorrent set to update the trackers through the proxy and force encryption on the torrent.

Sometimes it feels like i'm in a communist state with all the censorship, seriously crazy drug laws and complete hypocrisy here.

DK1  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/121.73.55.49|121.73.55.49]] ([[User talk:121.73.55.49|talk]]) 11:33, 12 March 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

Your IP seems from New Zealand!!! [[Special:Contributions/86.108.67.245|86.108.67.245]] ([[User talk:86.108.67.245|talk]]) 20:36, 14 March 2008 (UTC)

== Canada ==

isohunt works fine in Canada. --[[Special:Contributions/65.92.195.170|65.92.195.170]] ([[User talk:65.92.195.170|talk]]) 19:38, 12 March 2008 (UTC)

I'm in the UK and I haven't been able to access the site at all for weeks. What's going on? Is there anywhere besides Canada where the site actually works? [[User:Cassius335|Cassius335]] ([[User talk:Cassius335|talk]]) 14:27, 28 March 2008 (UTC)
: Huh, that's interesting. On a whim, I tried to access Isohunt via IE7 and that seems to work fine. But AOL Desktop (my usual browser) can't get at Isohunt at all... [[User:Cassius335|Cassius335]] ([[User talk:Cassius335|talk]]) 22:43, 30 March 2008 (UTC)

== Severe bias ==

ISOhunt is telling people to come here and advocate on its behalf on it's main page ([[http://isohunt.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=120294 forum post that is currently displayed on main page)]].  If you have come here to advocate as a result of this.  [[WP:COI|Please Don't]].  Any claim made in this article about blockages and legal actions need to be cited with a neutral source (That means NOT Isohunt).  If you are not sure what I mean please read the following wikipedia policies and guidelines:  [[WP:COI]], [[WP:CITE]], [[WP:NOR]].--&lt;small&gt;[[User:Oni Ookami Alfador|&lt;font color=&quot;midnightblue&quot;&gt;Oni Ookami Alfador&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;sup&gt;[[User talk:Oni Ookami Alfador|Talk]]|[[Special:Emailuser/Oni Ookami Alfador|@]]&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;/small&gt; 14:44, 20 March 2008 (UTC)

The severe bias is by the government exceeding its Constitutional Authority. The DMCA is unconstitutional in my legal opinion. I have a friend who is an attorney at Google who agrees with my assessment. I wouldn't disclose either of our names out of fear of retribution. This isn't a government anymore, we live under the Mafia. Bankers and corrupt politicians are immune from prosecution while Aaron Swartzes are &quot;suicided&quot; before they can make it to trial under this new Copyright tyranny.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/99.162.4.7|99.162.4.7]] ([[User talk:99.162.4.7|talk]]) 23:50, 26 May 2014 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Add section behind the scenes ==

TorrentFreak wrote an article about Gary Fung and his setup at home. Maybe you could include this as &quot;Behind the Scenes&quot; and add some photos of the servers and Gary's desk.

http://torrentfreak.com/bittorrent-behind-the-scenes-isohunt-090729/  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/81.164.101.59|81.164.101.59]] ([[User talk:81.164.101.59|talk]]) 16:51, 11 August 2009 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Wikipedia Page had been changed ==

The wikipedia page of isoHunt has been changed. Anybody who can fix this, please do. I can't. :-(  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Jaapinwiki|Jaapinwiki]] ([[User talk:Jaapinwiki|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Jaapinwiki|contribs]]) 16:39, 29 December 2009 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== IsoHunt repalced with &quot;IsoHunt Lite&quot; for US users ==

As of the evening of April 5th, the &quot;isohunt.com&quot; url was redirected to &quot;isohunt.hk/lite&quot;. This is a much paired down version of the IsoHunt search engine that does not allow categorization, date filtering, nor capturing or displaying of user comments. There is a disclaimer on the main page that explains that the changes were made in response to the pending  MPAA lawsuit against IsoHunt.  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Afarkas|Afarkas]] ([[User talk:Afarkas|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Afarkas|contribs]]) 13:34, 6 April 2010 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

This redirect, however, isn't very hard to get around. By simply using a proxy (such as anonymous-browsing.info, a Canadian-based proxy) , a user may easily bypass the redirect and go to the original site (I'm a US user, so this should work for other US users). [[User:ChiEkku|ChiEkku]] ([[User talk:ChiEkku|talk]]) 10:44, 5 May 2010 (UTC)

**I know this isn't a forum, however I have a question as to if the Isohunt forums are still alive or, because of the redirect, impossible for US users to access.  Thanks  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/96.18.71.195|96.18.71.195]] ([[User talk:96.18.71.195|talk]]) 18:40, 8 April 2010 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== April 2010 shutdown ==

The site is practically down now.--[[User:ILoveSky|ILoveSky]] ([[User talk:ILoveSky|talk]]) 22:01, 25 April 2010 (UTC)
:Hexagon.cc is currently down, not sure since when and if it's temporarily or permanently. --[[Special:Contributions/82.170.113.123|82.170.113.123]] ([[User talk:82.170.113.123|talk]]) 16:26, 27 August 2012 (UTC)

== isohunt inc. was isohunt.com, but is not isohunt.to ==

is this lemma about the ''term'' isohunt or the (meanwhile) ''offline service'' isohunt.com? isohunt.to is something different, although it looks the same. in german we call it a &quot;Trittbrettfahrer&quot;, someone who pretends to be someone important by copying other's ideas. [[User:Maximilian Schönherr|Maximilian]] ([[User talk:Maximilian Schönherr|talk]]) 16:53, 1 November 2013 (UTC)

:Personally, I think the best way to maintain this article is to focus on the idea of IsoHunt itself. There's little reason to have a distinct article on IsoHunt, Inc. as their sole focus was the website. Furthermore, if the clone sites become popular enough to warrant their own articles, we can later create separate articles for them and link to them from this one.

:For now, however, I feel it's best to keep a distinct section available for information about these (and new) clones, as well as updates about them. After all, official or not, they are &quot;related&quot; to the original as they were spawned in response to IsoHunt.com's demise. We see many official articles for a product that has information on knock-offs and third party clones. IsoHunt.com is no different. Perhaps we can get a moderator's take on this. [[User:Corey Edwards|Corey Edwards]] ([[User talk:Corey Edwards|talk]]) 18:53, 2 November 2013 (UTC)

::This seems very peculiar to me.  If I type in isohunt.to, there it is.  There is [http://torrentfreak.com/pirate-bay-copycats-flourish-after-raid-141212/ news] that Isohunt just launched a [[The Pirate Bay]] mirror at oldpiratebay.org, and this is advertised from isohunt.to.  To put this in past tense and ignore isohunt.to defies reality, and the name of the article.  If you name this article ''IsoHunt.com'' then OK, you can say it was a site that died, and then someone can go write IsoHunt.to, which after this is probably multiply notable by all reasonable standards.  But it would make more sense to explain there's more than one definition of IsoHunt. [[User:Wnt|Wnt]] ([[User talk:Wnt|talk]]) 20:24, 12 December 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>