<article id="8534593" title=User talk:172.189.229.72>
	<talkpage id="8534593" title="User talk:172.189.229.72">
== [[BT Group]] ==

That's some pretty wild statement. Please stop. [[User:Abu-Fool Danyal ibn Amir al-Makhiri|Abu-Fool Danyal ibn Amir al-Makhiri]] 20:46, 20 December 2006 (UTC)
:If by 'wild' you mean 'correct' then yes, I wholeheartedly agree. [[User:172.189.229.72|172.189.229.72]] 20:57, 20 December 2006 (UTC)
::I've blocked you for added nonsense to [[BT Group]].  If you can find [[WP:V|verifiable]] [[WP:CITE|sources]] for your assertation, we may be more willing to accept it.  For now though, your addition of the info is considered disruption. &lt;strong&gt;[[User:Martinp23|M]][[User:Martinp23/Esperanza|&lt;font color=&quot;green&quot;&gt;a&lt;/font&gt;]][[User_talk:Martinp23|rtinp23]]&lt;/strong&gt; 22:12, 20 December 2006 (UTC)
:::You won't stop me that easily! I won't rest until everyone knows the truth... [[User:172.189.229.72|172.189.229.72]] 23:33, 20 December 2006 (UTC)

==[[WP:3RR|3RR warning]]==
Please refrain from undoing other people's edits repeatedly{{{{{subst|}}}#if:{{{1|}}}|, as you are doing in [[:{{{1}}}]]}}. If you continue, you may be [[Wikipedia:Blocking policy|blocked]] from editing Wikipedia. Note that the [[Wikipedia:Three-revert rule|three-revert rule]] prohibits making more than three reversions in a content dispute within a 24 hour period. Additionally, users who perform a large number of reversions in content disputes may be blocked for [[Wikipedia:Edit war|edit warring]], even if they do not technically violate the [[Wikipedia:Three-revert rule|three-revert rule]]. Rather than reverting, discuss disputed changes on the talk page. The revision you want is not going to be implemented by edit warring. Thank you.&lt;!-- Template:3RR --&gt; --&lt;font color=&quot;#116655&quot;&gt;'''GW_Simulations'''&lt;sub&gt;[[User:GW Simulations|&lt;font color=&quot;#000000&quot;&gt;User Page&lt;/font&gt;]] | [[User talk:GW_Simulations|&lt;font color=&quot;#000000&quot;&gt;Talk&lt;/font&gt;]]&lt;/sub&gt;&lt;/font&gt; 21:12, 20 December 2006 (UTC)
:Alright then. [[User:172.189.229.72|172.189.229.72]] 21:23, 20 December 2006 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>