<article id="17929041" title=Talk:Rachel Rice>
	<talkpage id="17929041" title="Talk:Rachel Rice">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|blp=yes|1=
{{WikiProject Biography
|living=yes
|class=start
|filmbio-priority=low
|filmbio-work-group=yes
|listas=Rice, Rachel
}}
{{WikiProject Wales|class=start|importance=low}}
{{WikiProject Big Brother|importance=|class=Start}}
}}
{{Image requested|actors and filmmakers}}


== Article name ==
As we do not have another Rachel Rice on Wikipedia surely this article should be moved to plain &quot;Rache Rice&quot;? [[User:PatGallacher|PatGallacher]] ([[User talk:PatGallacher|talk]]) 01:01, 14 June 2008 (UTC)
:I agree. I created a redirect to [[List of Big Brother 2008 housemates (UK)]] from [[Rachel Rice]] a few days ago before this article was created. I've now reassigned it to this page. Renaming it could be done by deleting the Rachel Rice page then moving this page. [[User:TheRetroGuy|TheRetroGuy]] ([[User talk:TheRetroGuy|talk]]) 20:55, 14 June 2008 (UTC)
::Have now put in a request at [[Wikipedia:Requested moves]]. [[User:TheRetroGuy|TheRetroGuy]] ([[User talk:TheRetroGuy|talk]]) 21:17, 14 June 2008 (UTC)

I wonder if there will be a long term case to keep this separate page here. How long will Rachel be &quot;notable&quot;? [[User:MGCooke|MGCooke]] ([[User talk:MGCooke|talk]]) 14:59, 12 September 2008 (UTC)

: Years and years and years. [[User:Earfetish1|Earfetish1]] ([[User talk:Earfetish1|talk]]) 22:18, 15 September 2008 (UTC)

== Teaching career ==

The section &quot;before Big Brother&quot; previously read: &quot;Rachel worked as an assistant teacher in Caerleon Comprehensive School in Newport, South Wales. Here she taught up to A Level, the highest level possible outside of university teaching&quot;. I've chopped the final clause and linked &quot;A Level&quot;. In a UK context most people are going to understand what this means, and the link is sufficient for anyone outside the UK. &quot;The highest level possible outside of [sic] university teaching&quot; isn't strictly accurate (especially as her subject seems to be drama) and reads suspiciously like it's been included by a PR.[[User:Bedesboy|Bedesboy]] ([[User talk:Bedesboy|talk]]) 08:00, 24 July 2009 (UTC)

:Have refined the A Level link a little so it goes straight to the page. [[User:TheRetroGuy|TheRetroGuy]] ([[User talk:TheRetroGuy|talk]]) 11:00, 24 July 2009 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>