<article id="28303285" title=Talk:Slab hut>
	<talkpage id="28303285" title="Talk:Slab hut">
{{FailedGA|00:29, 17 October 2013 (UTC)|topic=Art and architecture|page=1}}.

==Bark Hut and Slab Hut==
These are two different kinds of buildings. A '''bark hut''' is entirely made of bark, including the walls. It is a makeshift or temporary shelter, even if it ends up being used for months or even years. Slab huts often had a bark roof, but their walls were made of timber slabs, and the structure was intended to be more permanent. &lt;strong&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;MidnightBlue&quot;&gt;[[User:Bluedawe|Bluedawe]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/strong&gt; 20:45, 22 October 2011 (UTC)

== Hephaestus Has Struck! ==
Well now, here's a most ingenious paradox. Hephaestus Books has scraped my articles ''Slab Hut'' and ''[[Bush carpentry]]'' off Wikipedia and published them as ''Wooden Buildings and Structures, Including: Slab Hut, Bush Carpentry, Buswartehobel'' as a [[Print on demand]] title, ISBN 9781242493300. Hephaestus are technically entitled to do this under a Creative Commons Licence, but what I want to know is, since my articles are now between (soft) covers and are dignified with a publisher's imprint, can I cite this book as an authority for the content of the articles they hijacked? Incidentally, Hephaestus Books don't call this 'publishing' they call it 'curating'.

I am reminded of an apposite quote from Chapter 12 of ''[[Huckleberry Finn]]'':

&lt;blockquote&gt;Mornings before daylight I slipped into cornfields and borrowed a watermelon, or a mushmelon, or a punkin, or some new corn, or things of that kind. Pap always said it warn't no harm to borrow things if you was meaning to pay them back some time; but the widow said it warn't anything but a soft name for stealing, and no decent body would do it. Jim said he reckoned the widow was partly right and pap was partly right; so the best way would be for us to pick out two or three things from the list and say we wouldn't borrow them any more -- then he reckoned it wouldn't be no harm to borrow the others. So we talked it over all one night, drifting along down the river, trying to make up our minds whether to drop the watermelons, or the cantelopes, or the mushmelons, or what. But towards daylight we got it all settled satisfactory, and concluded to drop crabapples and p'simmons. We warn't feeling just right before that, but it was all comfortable now. I was glad the way it come out, too, because crabapples ain't ever good, and the p'simmons wouldn't be ripe for two or three months yet.&lt;/blockquote&gt; 

&lt;strong&gt;&lt;font color=&quot;MidnightBlue&quot;&gt;[[User:Bluedawe|Bluedawe]]&lt;/font&gt;&lt;/strong&gt; 00:16, 31 January 2012 (UTC)

{{Talk:Slab hut/GA1}}
	</talkpage>
</article>