<article id="6484137" title=Talk:John P. O'Neill>
	<talkpage id="16052" title="Talk:John P. O'Neill/Archive 1">
{{talkarchive}}
To the person who introduced me to so much.

&quot;'Cause when I close my eyes, I still can see your smile, It's bright enough to light my life....&quot;

Missing you.  


==============
Sept. 14, 2001

Today I met John's sister, Lisa.  She was working at her usual job.  She was working because NOT going to work would mean that the terrorists had won. She didn't want them to have won. It was easy to see how hard it was for her to smile.  

With people like John and Lisa it is difficult to imagine how terrorist cowards could EVER defeat Americans.

Lee Roland  slr@mypad.com
	</talkpage>
	<talkpage id="6484137" title="Talk:John P. O'Neill">
{{Talk header}}
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Biography|living=no
|class=start

|listas=Oneill, John P.
}}
{{WikiProject United States|class=start|importance=low}}
{{WikiProject Terrorism}}
}}
{{Archive box|auto=yes}}

==Unsorted text==
Just curious: Where does the material about O'Neill's involvement in capturing Ramzi Yousef come from?  Are there people, articles, to refer to about this?  I would like to know more. Is there additional material?  -RK

Can [http://video.google.com/videoplay?docid=1981225573970187433&amp;q=label%3Aalex+jones this] be put among the external links? --[[User:Striver|Striver]] 19:27, 15 August 2006 (UTC)
:I don't see any point, since it but partially duplicates the more comprehensive pre-existing link listed:
*[http://www.whokilledjohnoneill.com Who Killed John O'Neill], free movie on 9/11 CIA background scenario from [[Ty Rauber]] and [[Ryan Thurston]], length 1:40, mainly b/w
:--[[User:Kgf0|KGF0]] ( [[User talk:Kgf0|T]] | [[Special:Contributions/Kgf0|C]] ) 10:01, 19 August 2006 (UTC)

This article seems to me to have a negative bias towards  John P. O'Neill. Sep,8,06

:Its hard to explain why a man was good enough to get a head of an US intelligence service. Even only a few internals might really know why, but surely arent allowed to talk about it. Think about, bad news more often makes it to the masses. Good news rarely does. Pure data, like a CV, is most often dusty and boring information. Only if you are able to wake that &quot;papers&quot; up to live by some means you will be able to improve the balancing. Quotes from others, unveiled hidden links or the involvement in creation of true history would make a difference. Hard job - and i really dont know if thats a path that leads to somewhere or just vanishes somewhere whilst trying to go it. It's sort of a tragic story so far, but you cant change the facts, not even because you whished it for that long term official. The Wikipedia designed to collect informations and bring it into an adequate form, not to alter it on desire. --[[User:Alexander.stohr|Alexander.stohr]] 21:35, 19 November 2006 (UTC)

&quot;the Bush administration's head-in-sand 'approach'&quot; strikes me as not quite NPOV.[[User:SuperToad64|SuperToad64]] 16:48, 4 March 2007 (UTC)

==&quot;Militants&quot;==

Is there a reason why terrorists are called militants in this article? Mere &quot;militancy&quot; is not a crime. [[User:Patsw|patsw]] 01:19, 5 March 2007 (UTC)

==Unlikely==

Am I the only one who thinks the circumstances of this guy's death is one of the most unlikely events that have ever happened in modern memory? Seriously? What are the odds? Seriously. [[User:VolatileChemical|VolatileChemical]] 12:31, 14 July 2007 (UTC)
:The odds are quite high actually [[User:Nil Einne|Nil Einne]] ([[User talk:Nil Einne|talk]]) 19:28, 2 May 2008 (UTC)
::[[Christopher Hitchens]] [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2LIhcIwruks#t=9m25s said] of him &quot;It's the nearest I've ever got in real life in a study to the [[Sherlock Holmes]] / [[Professor Moriarty|Moriarty]] global mutual combat.  Unfortunately only one of them falls into the [[Reichenbach Falls|Reichenbach]], so far.&quot; [[Special:Contributions/58.147.58.28|58.147.58.28]] ([[User talk:58.147.58.28|talk]]) 03:16, 15 February 2010 (UTC)

the odds are that your government is an arm of a secret sect that has vied for power for centuries, using the main conflicts over the past 2000 years as a means and the name of god as a justification.

if you want Their (her) name it would be The Whore of Revelation.  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/76.91.33.241|76.91.33.241]] ([[User talk:76.91.33.241|talk]]) 00:11, 11 December 2007 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

HOW CAN I BECOME AN FBI AT THE AGE OF 14 OR AT WHAT AGE IS IT REQUERT???  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/68.122.51.115|68.122.51.115]] ([[User talk:68.122.51.115|talk]]) 18:14, 9 June 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

This entire entry on John Oneill is weak at best. While many people know of the FBI agents in Arizona and Minnesota who warned of pilots training, few americans are aware of a man who warned for years of weakness and failure in investigating El Qaeda by the FBI, Whitehouse, CIA, Pentagon and the Saudi. When it came to the Saudis he stopped asking to interview people in their hands since they more often than not cut off there heads before oneill could interview them. Renegade agent or not he tried to do his job while others looked away as the deadly events of 9-11 developed in front of their very closed eyes. Magilla gorilla.  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/69.129.203.181|69.129.203.181]] ([[User talk:69.129.203.181|talk]]) 04:38, 12 June 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

Why can't there be a debate, between the 9/11 truthers and the people who did the official 9/11 investigation.  the word official is bullocks.  makes it sound liek the authority has mandated the truth.  &lt;small&gt;—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/68.238.192.41|68.238.192.41]] ([[User talk:68.238.192.41|talk]]) 06:24, 14 July 2008 (UTC)&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:UnsignedIP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Frontline ==

The number of hits registered has increased from a few hundred to 9000 after the broacast of the Frontline show. Path to 9/11 miniseries essentially told the same story. Both stories portray dedicated people who were on the trail of the 1993 World Trade Center bombers and Al Queda but were thwarted by bureacracy with tragic results. The Frontline piece in particular drew a map showing connections uncovered by o'Neils work, but gives the impression that powerful forces wanted o'Neill forced out and emerging intelligence kept away from him before he could fully uncover the emerging plot. [[User:Redhanker|Redhanker]] ([[User talk:Redhanker|talk]]) 07:18, 1 September 2011 (UTC)

==Expanding required==
This is information is not sufficient enough, It should be more, try to expand article according to [[Wikipedia]] [[WP:PG|policies]] with proper citations, if you allow my self I would be happy to help you and I can certainly help you in expanding it.-- [[User:Faizanalivarya|Faizan Munawar Varya]]&lt;sup&gt;[[User_talk:Faizanalivarya| chat]]&lt;/sup&gt;&lt;sub   style=&quot;margin-left:-2.0ex;&quot;&gt;[[Special:Contributions/Faizanalivarya| contributions]]&lt;/sub&gt; 11:32, 1 July 2012 (UTC)

==Criticism==
I removed the section &quot;Criticism&quot; because the comments/criticism by Michael Scheuer is totally specious. He criticizes Richard Clarke and John O'Neill &quot;called O'Neill and Richard Clarke the &quot;two principal authors of September 11&quot;.&lt;ref name=&quot;Scheuer&quot;/&gt; This statement he bases on the refusal of Clarke and O'Neill to agree to his offers to have bin Laden assassinated. 

I believe Scheuer, if he actually said this, is lying. US Government Agencies, on their own, cannot sanction an assassination of anybody. Both Clark and O'Neill knew that and would have told him so. Assassination by all agents was declared illegal by a directive signed by President Reagan. To override this Presidential directive takes a subsequent Presidential finding and revocation on the prohibition of use of assassination. Boslad  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:Bostonlad|Bostonlad]] ([[User talk:Bostonlad|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/Bostonlad|contribs]]) 19:02, 11 September 2012 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

:Editors cannot remove material if material is relevant to an article's topic, presented with proper weight, and supported by [[WP:IRS|reliable sources]], simply because ''they'' disagree with a source. This is not a valid rationale for content removal. Please see [[WP:NPOV]] and [[WP:NOR]]. 

:Also, please use the [[WP:PREVIEW|preview function]] to preview your edits, or check them after saving them so as to avoid or fix errors like the dangling characters left above the World Trade Center section [http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=John_P._O%27Neill&amp;diff=511893438&amp;oldid=511430438#cite_ref-6 here].

:Lastly, see [[Help:Section]] for how how to create new talk page discussions, since this discussion has nothing to do with the one on expanding the article above it. [[User:Nightscream|Nightscream]] ([[User talk:Nightscream|talk]]) 19:17, 11 September 2012 (UTC)

== WTC Role ==

Is there any reliable information on his role in the WTC, and particularly on the day of the bombing?  Was O'Neill active in rescue attempts, or killed early on?[[Special:Contributions/101.98.175.68|101.98.175.68]] ([[User talk:101.98.175.68|talk]]) 23:44, 25 January 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>