<article id="25799298" title=Talk:First Racing>
	<talkpage id="25799298" title="Talk:First Racing">
{{WPF1|importance=low|class=stub}}

==Proposed speedy deletion to make way for page move==
I'm not convinced about the statement at [[FIRST Racing]] that it is &quot;sometimes written as First Racing&quot; - I think I've only ever seen it as FIRST. I'll alert [[WP:F1]] and [[WP:MOTOR]] in the hopes of attracting further opinion. [[User:DH85868993|DH85868993]] ([[User talk:DH85868993|talk]]) 01:18, 14 January 2010 (UTC)
:No problem. If it turns out this is more controversial than I thought, we can have a discussion and/or a requested move. I'll not remove the template until a few more opinions are in. --[[User:MegaSloth|MegaSloth]] ([[User talk:MegaSloth|talk]]) 01:39, 14 January 2010 (UTC)
::Here's a few links supporting the article's claim:
::* [http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=B1ErRfjy4I0C&amp;pg=PA265&amp;dq=first-racing+formula-one&amp;lr=&amp;cd=15#v=onepage&amp;q=&amp;f=false]
::* [http://books.google.co.uk/books?id=DIpWAAAAMAAJ&amp;q=first-racing+formula-one&amp;dq=first-racing+formula-one&amp;lr=&amp;cd=29] (is this the same company?)
::* [http://www.grandprix.com/gpe/drv-apimar.html]
::* [http://www.grandprix.com/gpe/cref-divric.html]
::--[[User:MegaSloth|MegaSloth]] ([[User talk:MegaSloth|talk]]) 02:17, 14 January 2010 (UTC)
:Unless there is a source that states FIRST is an acronym of something, then it should move. --[[User:Falcadore|Falcadore]] ([[User talk:Falcadore|talk]]) 02:23, 14 January 2010 (UTC)
::[http://forums.autosport.com/index.php?showtopic=104809 This thread] in the Nostalgia Forum shows some old Autosport articles about the team. Clearly there was no capitalisation. [[User:Readro|Readro]] ([[User talk:Readro|talk]]) 10:10, 14 January 2010 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>