<article id="38933902" title=User talk:Zam Nuu>
	<talkpage id="38933902" title="User talk:Zam Nuu">
{{Infobox musical artist &lt;!-- See Wikipedia:WikiProject_Musicians --&gt;

| name                = Zam Nuu &lt;br/&gt;  ဇမ္ႏူး
| background          = singer/songwriter
| birth_name          = ZNC
| birth_date          = {{Birth date and age|1980|7|30|}}
| origin              = [[Tedim]], [[Chin State]], [[Myanmar]]
| religion            = Christian
| instrument          = Keyboard
| genre               = R&amp;B, pop, soul
| occupation          = Musician, Music Producer
| years_active        = 2000 - present
| label               = Entertainment
| website             = www.facebook.com/zamnuu
                        www.reverbnation.com/zamnuu


'''Zam Nuu''' ({{ ဇမ္ႏူး }}; born 30 July 1980) is a [[Burma|Burmese]] vocalist. Zam Nuu is one of the most famous Music Artists in Myanmar. 

==Biography==

Born Zam Nuu on July 30, 1980, in Burma - Myanmar, Zam Nuu started singing at an early age. As a child, she competed in Gospel talent shows , and many of these events by impressing audiences with her natural singing and dancing abilities. Zam Nuu to stardom as part of a singing act with her sisters, The Album name called “Thu Nay Yar Nint Thu” recorded at Linn Studio in the 1986, when she was 5years old. She was born for musician since at an early age . She has learning from her father who had music producer and sponsor of Chin National Songs most of Album. Known as “Leng Ton (Album 1-2-3-4-5 and more.....)” and “Chin National Songs Album” and others lots of Album including “Thu Nay Yar Nint Thu”.
While enjoying her success, known as the first album called KaByar Myay Ye’ Chit KaByar , the duo scored a hit in 2001 with &quot;Ah Chit Kyoe Lay.&quot; Equally famous for her unusual outfits as for her musical talent, Zam Nuu is a singer and excellent performance who got her start as create at stage on. She’s one of the most famous and successful singer-songwriters. Zam Nuu is famed for her soulful voice and romantic ballads. She is also known for multilingual music productions that span Four languages—her native Chin (TEDIM), Burmese, English and Italian. Zam Nuu worked with a number of different artists and various studio album. Zam Nuu began other projects on the Solo album. On her own, Zam Nuu continued to enjoy great success.
New Solo Album 1 - Zam Nuu’s First album “Thank You Lord” Audio CD &amp; VCD/MTV release on 25-12-2013.
New Solo Album 2 - Zam Nuu’s Second album also “ႏွလံုးသား ထဲမွာ” Audio CD release on 01-01-2013 (New Year Day).
For this first album called &quot;Thank You Lord&quot;, I selected 13 and second album also “ႏွလံုးသား ထဲမွာ&quot;, I selected 16 of my favorite New Album that have been a blessing to her through the years ......
Zam Nuu to celebrate the completion of the dream that brought her to media and public. After all of songwriting, recording, mixing and mastering A Journey To Here is finally… here! Zam Nuu continued to enjoy great success.

==Discography==
===Solo albums in 2013 ===
# Thank You Lord 
# “ႏွလံုးသား ထဲမွာ”
=== Albums ===
# Thu Nay Yar Nint Thu
# KaByar Myay Ye’ Chit KaByar


===Collaborations===

# Okkra - ???
# Lu Phyit Ya dae Dote Ka - A yar yar Har Pyang lae khae pyi
# Myo Kyawt Myaing Thingyan - Myo Kyawt Myaing Thingyan
# Lan Thwar mae Thingyan - Pap
# Ck Live Show - Ma Shoung naing buu chit mi tal
# A Chit Shi Thaw Nae Swear Myar - A Chit Shi Thaw Nae Swear Myar 
# A Chit Shi Thaw Nae Swear Myar - Thit Sar Shi Kyae
# 58 Ladies - Oxygen
# Min Atwat 1 - Sount O Mel
# Ta Khar Tae Par - Eden Thoe A Pyan
# A Say Par - Ko C Mar Na
# Ain Pyan Chain - Lo At Chin
# Ain Pyan Chain - Ain Pyan Chain
# April Queen 1-2-3- Ann Like Tot , Arr Bwar and A yuu Ma Hta Nae
# Ta Myay Hte Mhar - Note Set Hwat Kwar Chin
# Min Bar Lote Mhar Lae - A nar gat Mae Lann Sone, Chit nay don pae
# Sweet December - pop pop pyat pyat
# ABCD - Myaw and Kaung kin pyar yae out mhar
# Sai Sai - Bar Kyaunt Lae
# T-Home 1-2 - Nyo Mya, Yee Sar Alo Shi Tal and T-Home 
# T-Home Colourful Thingyan - Ta Kuu La Thingyan Yay
# Yay Cho Pin Lae - A chit Nae Atta
# Khan Khan Nar Nar 25 - Chit Phoe Khae Pyi
# Yin Khone Tat Thu Myar Yae Nae - Nout Kyoung Pyan A Lwan, Pyan Sone Mae Nae

==References==
{{Reflist}}


{{Persondata &lt;!-- Metadata: see [[Wikipedia:Persondata]]. --&gt;
| NAME              = Zam Nuu
| ALTERNATIVE NAMES = ဇမ္ႏူး
| SHORT DESCRIPTION = Burmese musician
| DATE OF BIRTH     = 30 July 1980
| PLACE OF BIRTH    = Tamu, Sagaing Division
                      Myanmar / Burma

}}
{{DEFAULTSORT:Zam Nuu}}
[[:Category:1980 births]]
[[:Category:Burmese singer-songwriters]]
[[:Category:Burmese musicians]]
	</talkpage>
</article>