<article id="19943077" title=Talk:The Clique (1960s UK band)>
	<talkpage id="19943077" title="Talk:The Clique (1960s UK band)">

==Bringing this page up to wikipedia inclusion standards==
Just a few notes on sorting out the issues with this article:

===Notability issue===
This article was previously deleted for failing [[WP:Music]].  It has been recreated as apparently meeting the notability criteria, but still doesn't seem to.  In order to avoid the article being deemed appropriate for deletion again, please rewrite to show which of the following criteria The Clique meet:

# Has been the '''subject of multiple non-trivial published works''' whose source is independent from the musician/ensemble itself and reliable.
# Has had a '''charted hit''' on any national music chart.
# Has had a '''record certified gold''' or higher in at least one country.
# Has received '''non-trivial coverage in a reliable source of an international concert tour''', or a national concert tour in at least one sovereign country.
# Has released '''two or more albums on a major label''' or one of the more important indie labels (i.e. an independent label with a history of more than a few years and a roster of performers, many of which are notable).
# Contains at least '''one notable musician'''; note that it is often most appropriate to use redirects in place of articles on side projects, early bands and such, and that common sense exceptions always apply.
# Has become the '''most prominent representative of a notable style''' or of the local scene of a city; note that the subject must still meet all ordinary Wikipedia standards, including verifiability.
# Has '''won or been nominated for a major music award''', such as a Grammy, Juno, Mercury or Grammis award.
# Has '''won or placed in a major music competition'''.
# Has '''performed music for a work of media that is notable''', e.g. a theme for a network television show, performance in a television show or notable film, inclusion on a compilation album, etc. (But if this is the only claim, it is probably more appropriate to have a mention in the main article and redirect to that article.)
# Has been '''placed in rotation nationally''' by any major radio network.
# Has been the '''subject of a half hour or longer broadcast''' across a national radio or TV network.

===References===
Unfortunately, information coming from the horses mouth does not constitute a [[WP:RS|reliable source]], regardless of whether it is the truth or not.  Sources for articles must be published ones so that they are [[WP:V|verifiable]] (verifiability is a core wikipedia policy).  [[WP:OR|Original research]] is not admissable.  

In order to fix the issues with this article, please provide some published references, but keep in mind that if the notability of the band remains unestablished it may still be deleted. [[User:Sassf|sassf]] ([[User talk:Sassf|talk]]) 11:42, 26 October 2008 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>