<article id="34252299" title=Talk:Acid strength>
	<talkpage id="34252299" title="Talk:Acid strength">
{{Chemistry|class=B|importance=High}}

== Merger discussion leading to creation of this article ==
(Copied from [[Talk:Acid#Merger proposal]])

I believe Strong acid should be merged into Acid.  Not only does this make logical sense, as strong acids are a sub-category of acids, but it matches the format taken by bases and strong bases (strong base is a section of [[Base]]).  If the consensus is that they should not be merged, I suggest moving strong base to its own article. [[User:Neonfuzz|Neonfuzz]] ([[User talk:Neonfuzz|talk]]) 18:37, 27 September 2011 (UTC)

:One problem is that this Acid article is already very long (41K). Instead I would suggest merging the three articles [[Strong acid]] (7K), [[Weak acid]] (7.5K) and [[Superacid]] (5.6K) into one new article on Acid strength, initially with three sections. And yes, for consistency we could also merge the strong base section of [[Base]] (13K) with [[Weak base]] (7.5K) and [[Superbase]] (5K) into one new article on Base strength. [[User:Dirac66|Dirac66]] ([[User talk:Dirac66|talk]]) 22:31, 27 September 2011 (UTC)

::This is a great idea! I can probably get to work on it within the next few weeks. [[User:Neonfuzz|Neonfuzz]] ([[User talk:Neonfuzz|talk]]) 15:37, 29 September 2011 (UTC)

:::Agreed! Having separate (much smaller) articles makes less sense than one longer article, as readers will gain more insight into the context rather than as a stand-alone topic.--&lt;span style=&quot;&quot;&gt;[[User:Gilderien|Gilderien]] &lt;span style=&quot;font-size:70%; vertical-align:sub;&quot;&gt;[[User talk:Gilderien|Talk]]|[[Special:Contributions/Gilderien|Contribs]]&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/span&gt; 20:08, 17 October 2011 (UTC)

I definitely think this is a good idea, but who is going to do it? I'm not sure how, and I don't want to attampt for fear of doing something wrong. I don't see why anyone hasn't done this, yet.  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:W192|W192]] ([[User talk:W192|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/W192|contribs]]) 18:28, 27 December 2011 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;
:OK, thanks for the reminder. It is complicated to decide what to do exactly, but I have now started. First I created a new article [[Acid strength]] by copy-pasting the former Acid strength section of this Acid article, and deleted its subsections from this new article. Then I copy-pasted the entire content of the former Strong acid article into Acid strength, and replaced Strong acid by a redirect. For these two actions I consider that adequate notice was given, since the Merger proposal was on both the Acid and Strong acid article for several months.
:Next proposed step is to copy-paste the contents of [[Weak acid]] and [[Superacid]] into Acid strength. However since the merger proposal was not previously on these two articles, I will post one now and wait 14 days for comments before proceeding. And after the acid merger is finished, I will think about bases.
:And finally I will copy this discussion to [[Talk:Acid strength]] which seems the best place for further discussion. [[User:Dirac66|Dirac66]] ([[User talk:Dirac66|talk]]) 03:09, 2 January 2012 (UTC)
*'''comment''' I definitely do not think [[superacid]] should be merged into [[acid strength]].  They are quite different topics.  The natural focus in an article titled ''superacid'' is on the acids (and acid systems) themselves, whereas the natural focus of an article titled ''acid strength'' is on the concept of the strength of an acid, how such strength is defined and measured.  I don't see any natural fit for combining those two topics. --[[User:Trovatore|Trovatore]] ([[User talk:Trovatore|talk]]) 04:47, 2 January 2012 (UTC)
::'''Conclusion''' There has been no objection to the consensus to merge the content of Weak acid into Acid strength, so I will do that today. There has been one objection with some merit to merging Superacid, so I will leave that article alone. The Acid strength article does have a mention of Superacids at the end of the intro, with a link to the separate article where more details are available.[[User:Dirac66|Dirac66]] ([[User talk:Dirac66|talk]]) 21:27, 17 January 2012 (UTC)

== Corrosivity ==
There is a claim that the hydrofluoric acid dissolves all metals except iridium.  In my experience HF doesn't attack gold and the Handbook of Corrosion Data, Craig &amp; Anderson (1995), p. 439 back this up.  (see http://books.google.ca/books?id=KXwgAZJBWb0C&amp;pg=RA1-PT392&amp;lpg=RA1-PT392&amp;dq=gold+hydrofluoric+acid&amp;source=bl&amp;ots=RfISDrEr2f&amp;sig=StzO_JVWvu9OkyCwiYiJcfaWGiY&amp;hl=en&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=iFxiT82CMoiD0QGEloWBCA&amp;ved=0CEEQ6AEwBDgK#v=onepage&amp;q=gold%20hydrofluoric%20acid&amp;f=false).  The corrosion claim has been reduced to &quot;most metals&quot; rather than all but iridium

== Plain English? ==

&quot;...one mole of a strong acid HA dissolves in water yielding one mole of H+ and one mole of the conjugate base, A−, and essentially none of the protonated acid HA. In contrast a weak acid only partially dissociates and at equilibrium both the acid and the conjugate base are in solution.&quot;
As of 7/12/2012 the above is from the third sentence of the article.  That does not seem like plain English.  I do not know how to re-write it.  (Nor do I know what it means.)  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/24.205.37.180|24.205.37.180]] ([[User talk:24.205.37.180|talk]]) 05:57, 13 July 2012 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== difference between strong acids and superacids ==
 
Neither this article nor [[superacid]] explain what the difference is between strong acids and superacids, and this article confusingly puts hydrochloric and other acids in the list of strong acids that are are superacids according to the definition given in both articles. What a mess. 

And if they are apples and oranges, that should be explained. In any case, the article on superacids should also mention that hydroiodic, hydrobromic, perchloric, and hydrochloric acids are superacids and not only talk about the most powerful ones. --[[User:Espoo|Espoo]] ([[User talk:Espoo|talk]]) 21:08, 4 December 2014 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>