<article id="18407283" title=Talk:Okpella>
	<talkpage id="18407283" title="Talk:Okpella">
'''HISTORY OF OKPELLA ACCORDING TO OBAFEMI OMOYAKI DAVID'''
 
'''The story told by odegha omwokpo the oldest man in imianokpe village iddo 11 okpella.'''

THE STORY.
There was a man named '''okpea''' He was said to have migrated from a place called Ekae in Benin during the tyrannical rule of Oba Ozolua. Oral tradition has it that Ikponwusa later corrupted okpea left Benin with his beautiful wife Eveva who was a twin. His departure was said to have been hastened by attempt by royal forces to take his wife. In another version, he was said to have left Benin to hunt for leopards. It should be recalled that leopard skins were exported by Benin Empire to Portugal in the 15th century. The above accounts strongly suggest that Okpella origin lies in Benin. okpea arrived at a place called okpea a small stream in Ogute-Okpella. There, he had three children namely rite, Ase (oteku) and Otuma (Ekuri).



Okpella lies between latitude 7 degree 18' N and longitude 6 degree 20' E and has several clusters of towns and villages, including Imiegele, Ogute, Awuyemi, Afokpella, Imakebu, Imiegba, Oku, etc. It is part of the many towns that make up Edo State of Nigeria; and it is a non-industrial town. The only industry there is a large cement company (Edo State Cement Company), which, due to the indifferent attitude of the Nigerian government towards industrialisation and self-sufficiency, is almost becoming moribund now. Lucky Igbenedion, the governor of Edo State (1999-2007) practically did nothing to improve the lot of the people. after his tenure, there were stories of embezzlements of funds meant for state development.
The people of Okpella belong to the afemian language group of the Niger-Congo languages. They are basically subsistence farmers and petty traders.
The paramount ruler, Mr Idirisu, the Okwokpellagbe of Okpella, has not helped matter too. Rather than call for improvement of life for his people, he is said to be more interested in the allocations that accrue to him from government purse. The roads and state of things in the towns were deplorable, until recently in 2008 when Mr Osunbor,the newly but controversially enthrone governor, embarked on massive road contruction and maintenance.
The town is ruled by the paramount king, the Okwokpellagbe, through junior chiefs. Generally, it is a very peaceful town.
	</talkpage>
</article>