<article id="14012708" title=Talk:Thiers Issard>
	<talkpage id="14012708" title="Talk:Thiers Issard">
{{dyktalk|1 November|2007|entry=...that [[razor]] manufacturer '''[[Thiers Issard]]''' produces a ''singing razor'' whose blade produces a [[resonance|resonant]] [[Overtone|tone]] when plucked?}}
{{WikiProject Blades|class=start|importance=low}}

== Advertisement?? ==

There are only two sources for citations; one is the website of the company, the other is a long article on the website of a company selling the company's product.

An abbreviated version of this article could be merged with the article &quot;[[Straight razor]]&quot;, but this article, itself, should be deleted as an advertisement. [[User:Too Old|Too Old]] 23:01, 3 December 2007 (UTC)
:It is too facile to dismiss these two sources. But they have no reason to lie. The products' claims made are universally acknowledged as true and they are technical in nature. The processes they describe are universally known. They don't claim they cure cancer. They specify the materials and processes used in their products. If they were not true they could be sued. The tone of the article in measured. The [[DOVO]] article does not cite '''any''' sources. Thiers Issard is a famous razor maker. They deserve their own article. It is not their fault that they are one of the best razor makers in the world. Do I advertise them by saying that? In the same way the Rolex and Rolls Royce websites provide information about their products and nobody accuses them of lying so does Thiers Issard provide reliable info in theirs. I can distinguish between hype and technical info by training. It is disappointing to see instead of trying to improve the article an almost reflexive action to want to destroy it. [[User:Tasoskessaris|Dr.K.]] 00:15, 4 December 2007 (UTC)

I didn't say there was any falsification.  But there also is no compartive coverage of competing products.  Nor any independent critique of the product. 

As to lawsuits; I don't know under what theoriws one may be sued in your part of the world, but a successful lawsuit in the USA would have to prove some damage or harm to another person, group, or corporate entity that was due to the lie.  Simple untruthfulness is not enough.  Most of literature is made up of untruthful stories. 

I had not looked at the [[DOVO]] article.  I shall make the same sort of criticism there. [[User:Too Old|Too Old]] 04:25, 4 December 2007 (UTC)
::The only other competing product is made by [[DOVO]]. They are jointly considered to be the best cutlers/ razor producers in the world. The citations from [[CNN]] and [[GQ]] corroborate this. [[User:Tasoskessaris|Dr.K.]] 04:31, 4 December 2007 (UTC)
:::P.S. Have you heard of [[False advertising]]? Is it only in my part of the world? [[User:Tasoskessaris|Dr.K.]] 04:36, 4 December 2007 (UTC)

== Suggestions ==

*The article misses that the company &quot;Thiers Issard Sabatier&quot; is just one (albeit apparently the best-known) of many cutleries in [[Thiers, Puy-de-Dôme|Thiers]].[http://www.coutellerie-thiers.com/historique.htm][http://www.couteaux-jfl.com/marques.htm]
*Thiers Issard Sabatier produces not only razors, but also kitchen knives and [[razor blade]]s (since 1920).[http://www.coutellerie-thiers.com/annuaire/viewer.php?IdPage=46&amp;IdNavigation=-1&amp;IdModele=1]

In general, this article should focus more on the company than on the precise process of how they manufacture their razors. [[User:Lupo|Lupo]] 21:03, 18 December 2007 (UTC)
:Thanks for the suggestions. I'll incorporate the first two in the text. As far as the razor manufacturing processes, given that this is one of their best known products and that the processes they use are unique, their razors and associated processes must be mentioned as part of their traditional manufacturing skills set. I think if we incorporate more products and processes the current emphasis on razors will be diluted, except if a separate article dealing only with their razors were to be created. [[User:Tasoskessaris|Dr.K.]] ([[User talk:Tasoskessaris|talk]]) 21:26, 18 December 2007 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>