<article id="368689" title=Talk:James Hogg>
	<talkpage id="368689" title="Talk:James Hogg">
{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Biography
|living=no
|class=c
|a&amp;e-work-group=yes
|listas=Hogg, James
}}
{{WikiProject Politics of the United Kingdom|class=c|auto=inherit|importance=low}}
{{WikiProject Scotland|class=c|importance=Mid}}
{{WikiProject Poetry|class=c|importance=low}}
}}

==Untitled==
Is this the Hogg of ''Hogg's Jacobite Reliques''? [[User:Mkweise|Mkweise]] 15:40, 16 Nov 2003 (UTC)
: Never mind, I found the answer: yes. [[User:Mkweise|Mkweise]] 16:03, 16 Nov 2003 (UTC)

Did Hogg really become better known than Burns?

It is difficult to credit Hogg's becoming better known than Burns.  Burns, after all, is one of the most popular and most translated writers in the world.  I have heard Scots say that he is, in both cases.  This not to downplay Hogg's achievements.  His works deserve much wider readership than they have at present.

The article rather makes it sound as though &quot;Confessions&quot; was a success at the time of publication; it was not.  Although it is Hogg's best known work today, it met with little success in his lifetime.  This should be clarified in the article, I feel.

No mention is made of the *The Three Perils of Man*. But many now consider this novel to be even more important than *The Confessions of a Justified Sinner* Though it hass the from of a historical novel, it is arguably the first supernatural fantasy novel ever written.  &lt;span style=&quot;font-size: smaller;&quot; class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/86.128.52.156|86.128.52.156]] ([[User talk:86.128.52.156|talk]]) 09:46, 1 November 2011 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned IP --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

== Both Sides the Tweed ==

The wiki article and other sources say that Dick Gaughan's &quot;Both Sides the Tweed&quot; is based on one of James Hogg's poems. Which one? Does anyone know?  Shouldn't this fact be mentioned in this article? I would add a piece myself but don't know which poem Gaughan supposedly plagiarized from Hogg.  &lt;small&gt;&lt;span class=&quot;autosigned&quot;&gt;— Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[User:FrancisDane|FrancisDane]] ([[User talk:FrancisDane|talk]] • [[Special:Contributions/FrancisDane|contribs]]) 14:36, 25 November 2011 (UTC)&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/small&gt;&lt;!-- Template:Unsigned --&gt; &lt;!--Autosigned by SineBot--&gt;

I don't know I'm afraid. This [http://www.footstompin.com/public/forum?threadid=561537 discussion] is not exactly definitive. either. [[User:Ben MacDui|&lt;font color=&quot;#6495ED&quot;&gt;Ben&lt;/font&gt;]] [[User talk:Ben MacDui|&lt;font color=&quot;#C154C1&quot;&gt;Mac&lt;/font&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/Ben MacDui|&lt;font color=&quot;#228B22&quot;&gt;Dui&lt;/font&gt;]] 16:22, 26 November 2011 (UTC)

==Error==
The photo in this Wikipedia article can also be seen at the University of North Caroilina at Chapel Hill
[http://giving.unc.edu/about/tradition/index.htm] with this caption:
&quot;James Hogg of Hillsborough, University trustee from 1789 to 1802 and one of Carolina’s first and greatest volunteer fundraisers, solicited gifts of land and money for the Chapel Hill campus.&quot;
Is there a photo mixup or is the Wikipedia article missing info and wrong when it said &quot;James and William remained in Scotland for their entire lives&quot;? [[User:Hialeah Harry|Hialeah Harry]] ([[User talk:Hialeah Harry|talk]]) 00:04, 11 February 2012 (UTC)
:Well spotted. There is a mixup but I suspect it may be in the University of North Carolina IT department. I cannot be certain but you will see many photos of the same man on the web (see [http://www.gis.net/~shepdog/BC_Museum/Permanent/HOGG/hogg_top.html here] for example) claiming to be the poet and I very much doubt that he was also a fundraiser in the US. [[User:Ben MacDui|&lt;font color=&quot;#6495ED&quot;&gt;Ben&lt;/font&gt;]] [[User talk:Ben MacDui|&lt;font color=&quot;#C154C1&quot;&gt;Mac&lt;/font&gt;]][[Special:Contributions/Ben MacDui|&lt;font color=&quot;#228B22&quot;&gt;Dui&lt;/font&gt;]] 09:58, 11 February 2012 (UTC)
	</talkpage>
</article>